Or never be so noble as a consul,

Is my dear son with such sour company:
MENENIUS:
You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies:
I dare assure you, sir, 'tis almost two;
Withal obdurate, do not hear him plead;
Second Murderer:
Who knows not that the noble duke is dead?
Come, sister,--cousin, I would say--pray, pardon me.
PETRUCHIO:
But this most cruel usage of your queen,
The King is sickly, weak and melancholy,
I live to look upon their tragedy.
CURTIS:
And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate

The gods preserve you both!
If any in Vienna be of worth
BENVOLIO:

Do more than counterpoise a full third part

Here come those I have done good to against my will,
With flowers of winter.
Huntsman, what say'st thou? wilt thou go along?
GRUMIO:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush;
DUKE OF YORK:

LEONTES:
ANTIGONUS:

The weary sun hath made a golden set,

i' the morn; I'll call you at your house: give
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
This was my wish: 'Be thou,' quoth I, ' accursed,
We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
And me too, good Lord!
BUCKINGHAM:
Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
make merry withal?
I have seen and heard of; for your voices have



Fie, fie, fie!
PARIS:
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
I have my wish.
On them to took and practise by myself.
And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Here in Vienna, sir.
Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
With our own charge, making a treaty where
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
This is the way to kindle, not to quench.
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
Is't so, indeed.
By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
SICINIUS:
The northern lords that have forsworn thy colours
That I have worn a visor and could tell


In such a one as, you consenting to't,
Methinks a father
This same should be the voice of Friar John.

court-cupboard, look to the plate. Good thou, save
Not for Bohemia, nor the pomp that may
If he took you a box o' the ear, you might have your
And he, and more
As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island--
Besides himself, are all the English peers,

That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks
Which he so sets at nought.
With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat;
changes I perceived in the king and Camillo were
Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
Art thou my son?
GLOUCESTER:
Sweet Oxford, and my loving Montague,
CORIOLANUS:
Read the indictment.
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
MARCIUS:

Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the
eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
What say you? can you love the gentleman?
Had answer'd for his deed: now 'tis awake
HORTENSIO:

I go: and towards three or four o'clock
LEONTES:
Shall win the wager which we will propose.


LUCENTIO:
Is't possible you will away to-night?
Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
in your ward sufficient to serve it?
Come, therefore, let's about it speedily.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
DUKE OF YORK:
Shepherd:
'Tis that he sent me of the duke's return:

Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;

nothing undone that may fully discover him their

PROSPERO:

Were I but where 'tis spoken.
This gentleman is happily arrived,
If he should still malignantly remain
KING RICHARD II:
To gratulate the gentle princes there.
Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
Come hither to me, Master Elbow; come hither, Master
EXTON:
In every borough as we pass along;
I'll hear you by and by.
Which is the bell: so sighs and tears and groans
Thrusts forth his horns again into the world;
A man that loves not me, nor none of you.
At Mariana's house to-night. Her cause and yours
I like you, lads; about your business straight;

Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
fear, the angle that plucks our son thither. Thou
But the safer when 'tis back'd with France.

And make me happy in your unity.
JULIET:
ISABELLA:
Than the severity of the public power
When he shall miss me,--as, in faith, I mean not
For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
Should a villain say so,
Prefer them hither; for to cunning men

RATCLIFF:
Outlive thy glory, like my wretched self!



rest of the herd to me that all their other senses
BENVOLIO:
Away, you three-inch fool! I am no beast.
Because that, like a Jack, thou keep'st the stroke
Sound drums and trumpets! farewell sour annoy!
No deeper wrinkles yet? hath sorrow struck


Five have I slain to-day instead of him.
MENENIUS:
ESCALUS:

Which we in justice cannot well deny,
ROMEO:
Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.
SICINIUS:
What hast thou found?
An she agree, within her scope of choice

Stab poniards in our flesh till all were told,
A pond as deep as hell.

Applaud the name of Henry with your leader.

But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man


Of our so frank donation. Well, what then?
wonder how thou darest venture to be drunk, not
This orb o' the earth. His last offences to us
As he is but my father's brother's son,
You said that idle weeds are fast in growth

FLORIZEL:


One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,


These poor informal women are no more
JOHN OF GAUNT:
And then I'll set upon him.
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
My noble masters, hear me speak.
TRANIO:

What talk you of debating? in few words,
But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
YORK:
God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
So thrive I in my dangerous attempt


Great men may jest with saints; 'tis wit in them,

Is death to any he that utters them.

If you had been the wife of Hercules,
And buried, gentle Tyrrel?

3 KING HENRY VI
O heavens!
And pass'd him unelected.
He could not stay to pick them in a pile
For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows,
shall have no more eyes to see withal than a cat.
And show'd thee all the qualities o' the isle,

BENVOLIO:
We stood to't in good time.
And here she stands, touch her whoever dare;

To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
Which, I protest, hath very much beguiled
Thy brother Edward, and thyself the sea
With heigh! the doxy over the dale,
best of 'em were hereditary hangmen. God-den to
Nourish the cause of his awaking: I

TYBALT:
Although apparent guilt be seen in them;
Hath had no notice of these accidents;

COMINIUS:


Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
First Citizen:

Why, very well, then; I hope here be truths.
Come away; it is almost clear dawn.
My heart as great, my reason haply more,
Thereon I pawn my credit and mine honour.
When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper
CLAUDIO:
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay,
And she will speak most bitterly and strange.
Cold friends to Richard: what do they in the north,
The presentation of but what I was;
for conscience sake, to help to get thee a wife.
Now, what's the matter. Provost?
PROSPERO:
POLIXENES:

KING RICHARD III:
Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd.

And I,--like one lost in a thorny wood,
A little fire is quickly trodden out;

Shall remain!

Besides, upon the very siege of justice
You are transported by calamity
The words of heaven; on whom it will, it will;
I did not well I meant well. All my services
CORIOLANUS:
by threes. He's to make his requests by



treasonable abuses!
You are deceived, your brother Gloucester hates you.


Who strongly hath set footing in this land:
As I do pray the gods.
MENENIUS:
Even in his own garments, and gave himself,


FLORIZEL:
The fault's your own.
DUKE OF YORK:


KING HENRY VI:
me asleep, for I am very heavy?
You bid me make it orderly and well,

Why, that was when
My lord,--
How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his sides,
The mere effusion of thy proper loins,
I humbly beseech you, sir, to pardon me all the
Stands at a guard with envy; scarce confesses
But only they have privilege to live.
Flattering me with impossibilities.
Out, devil! I remember them too well:
QUEEN MARGARET:


Your valour puts well forth: pray, follow.
An onion will do well for such a shift,
He is.
Many years of happy days befal
And all probation will make up full clear,
But have been waked by his timorous dreams.
Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
GLOUCESTER:
This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.
I have no more sons of the royal blood
Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his
You may go to the devil's dam: your gifts are so
If thou do pardon, whosoever pray,
The king had cut off my head with my brother's.
And twice as much, whate'er thou offer'st next.
GLOUCESTER:

You have made fair work!

Prithee bring him in; and let him approach singing.

which laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
Do you hear, ho? you must meet my master to
With child, perhaps?

To see you are become so penitent.


So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn.
I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.

mio Petruchio.' Rise, Grumio, rise: we will compound
'Tis but his policy to counterfeit,
As there comes light from heaven and words from breath,
Messenger:
That every day under his household roof
Or what is now received: I witness to



Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,

How, Camillo,
VINCENTIO:
I will encounter darkness as a bride,

Who, hearing of our Marcius' banishment,



How far off is our brother Montague?
Infusing him with self and vain conceit,

And yet, incaged in so small a verge,
MIRANDA:




sea mocked them; and how the poor gentleman roared
Three times did Richard make a lane to me.
They might have lived to bear and he to taste
Of my behind-hand slackness. Welcome hither,
LORD FITZWATER:
A goodly city is this Antium. City,
The fouler fortune mine, and there an end.

Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
Even in the lukewarm blood of Henry's heart.
The most replenished sweet work of nature,
KATHARINA:

HORTENSIO:
Let's be calm.
And there receive her approbation:
this quarrel.

Having my country's peace and brothers' loves.
Pardon is still the nurse of second woe:
Before this ancient sir, who, it should seem,

PARIS:
Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!

Ay; 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy
If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.

Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete,
Why, then, I will. Farewell, old Gaunt.
to be glad of yours.
I hope it is some pardon or reprieve
say is a gallimaufry of gambols, because they are
Or never after look me in the face:
GLOUCESTER:
DUKE OF YORK:

Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
BONA:

Call you me daughter? now, I promise you



Was ne'er distributed.

BRAKENBURY:

Your high displeasure: all this uttered
I heard him swear,
But let it rest. Now, Licio, to you:
Peace, peace!

That she is living,
GLOUCESTER:
My father of this business.

Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains
To mingle faith with him! Undone! undone!
From thy admiring daughter took the spirits,
Let but your honour know,

But my entreaty too.
And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful
The worthy gentleman did lose his life.
We'll serve Him too and be his fellow so:

How now! what mean'st thou, that thou help'st me not?
My parks, my walks, my manors that I had.
I know her father, though I know not her;
When I have most need to employ a friend,
Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
process-server, a bailiff; then he compassed a
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;

Which lets go by some sixteen years and makes her
I send thee, Warwick, such a messenger
Forbear awhile; we'll hear a little more.
In haste, post-haste, are come to join with you:
To hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home.
If thou deny'st it twenty times, thou liest;
how honour would become such a person. that it was

The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
Here comes a gentleman that haply knows more.
The high imperial type of this earth's glory.

That glues my lips and will not let me speak.

My waters; on the earth, and not on him.
of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
ISABELLA:
BALTHASAR:
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
So, now prosperity begins to mellow
To think o' the teen that I have turn'd you to,
all foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? was ever
Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so.
Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
The people mutinous; and it is rumour'd,
Ay, marry, sir, now looks he like a king!
JOHN OF GAUNT:
LUCIO:
What stay had we but Clarence? and he's gone.
From the casque to the cushion, but commanding peace
No; he doth but mistake the truth totally.


Although they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,
In common worldly things, 'tis call'd ungrateful,
Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear;
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
POMPEY:
CATESBY:
bowling, it will please plentifully.
Be to thy person, noble father-in-law!
'Tis thought the king is dead; we will not stay.
Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.
Second Gentleman:
Quick, dispatch, and send the head to Angelo.
Is't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca

Move them no more by crossing their high will.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And in the stocks avouch it.
But how, is to be question'd; for I saw her,

And who sits here that is not Richard's subject?
And do not call them bastards.
KING RICHARD III:
And credulous to false prints.
The shadow or your face.

Clown:
His bloody brow! O Jupiter, no blood!
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
That I might strive to kill it with a groan.
Becomes not Rome, nor has Coriolanus
Why that way?



TRANIO:
I chafe you, if I tarry: let me go.
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
Ay, but to die, and go we know not where;
CORIOLANUS:
Or bide the mortal fortune of the field?
Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?
He that will give good words to thee will flatter
MARCIUS:
Return'd my letter back. Then all alone
The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them;
How they at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd,
And entertain some score or two of tailors,
Armed in proof, and led by shallow Richmond.
The patron of my life and liberty.
Where it was forged, with my rapier's point.
And I in better state than e'er I was.

Brother, good day; what means this armed guard


And so obsequious will thy father be,
Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot
ISABELLA:
And I confess besides I am no maid:

There rest.
Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
So.

To let him slip at will.
Nothing but his report.

BENVOLIO:
O my dread lord,


One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,

And meaner than myself have had like fortune.
For she is good, hath brought you forth a daughter;
Have left me issueless; and your father's blest,
SEBASTIAN:

LUCENTIO:

That most are willing. If any such be here--
You, that are thus so tender o'er his follies,
Meaning the king at Pomfret. Come, let's go:
Of thy adverse pernicious enemy:
KATHARINA:
Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,

If I pervert your course. Who's here?
What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,
Or, he that slew her brothers and her uncles?


KING RICHARD II:
A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?
Go some of you and fetch a looking-glass.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Since when, his oath is broke; for, as I hear,

Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee. What!

Up in my heart; which I have given already,
Servant:
Prithee, be my present partner in this business, and
In hateful practise. First, his integrity
Since, of ourselves, ourselves are choleric,
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
And through the instrument my pate made way;
NORTHUMBERLAND:
HORTENSIO:
Then is my sovereign slain?
From giving aid which late I promised.
LADY CAPULET:


SICINIUS:
still, ha?
The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,
At Chertsey monastery this noble king,
Give way to what's seen now! Sir, you yourself
I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.
For the most gentle Claudio.
Call Warwick patron and be penitent?
Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die:
But that he speaks.
GLOUCESTER:
KING HENRY VI:
Sirrah, lead these gentlemen
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender

Better far off than near, be ne'er the near.
Muster'd my soldiers, gather'd flocks of friends,
The causes of their death appear, unto
VOLUMNIA:

CLARENCE:
And die in bands for this unmanly deed!
As for my country I have shed my blood,
KING RICHARD III:
With shunless destiny; aidless came off,

Good brother, as thou lovest and honourest arms,
My favour here begins to warp. Not speak?
All:
The traces of the smallest spider's web,
On Thursday next be married to this county.
GRUMIO:
To lie that way thou go'st, not whence thou comest:

What news abroad i' the world?
PRINCE:
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;
milliner can so fit his customers with gloves: he
Let him alone;
KING EDWARD IV:
His wit set down to make his valour live

MERCUTIO:
The ruddiness upon her lip is wet;
So fared our father with his enemies;
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Thy age confirm'd, proud, subdued, bloody,
From course required; or else thou must be counted

GLOUCESTER:


Of their best trust; o'er them Aufidius,
Such a nature,
And forced to live in Scotland a forlorn;

As I did him, and speak of something wildly
And you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in
But if an humble prayer may prevail,
MENENIUS:

KING RICHARD III:

I will be satisfied; let me see it, I say.
And madly play with my forefather's joints?
Why then it sorts, brave warriors, let's away.
Came more and more and fought on part and part,
Should from yond cloud speak divine things,
Neither the king, nor he that loves him best,
LOVEL:
Properly ours.
Shall have my Bianca's love.
Ten the clock there. Give me a calendar.
And from her womb children of divers kind
Let not the heavens hear these tell-tale women
the scale.
If she be curst, it is for policy,
I think, Camillo?

hadst been poor John. Draw thy tool! here comes
Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,
First Servingman:
As if my brother lived: I partly think
Roman:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
POMPEY:
The people are abused; set on. This paltering

JOHN OF GAUNT:
DUKE OF YORK:
And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone,


Upon remainder of a dear account,

You are never without your tricks: you may, you may.
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
Well, somewhat we must do. Come, cousin, I'll
Shall I not, then, be stifled in the vault,

What, you mean my face?
My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
For patience she will prove a second Grissel,

MENENIUS:
That thought to fill his grave in quiet, yea,
To lose his head; condemn'd by Angelo:
He seems to be of great authority: close with him,
To sunder his that was thine enemy?


Cry mercy, lords and watchful gentlemen,
Stop,
How now, what news with you?

know the king is full of grief.
QUEEN MARGARET:
BRUTUS:
Her pastures' grass with faithful English blood.
ISABELLA:
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;
And while it is so, none so dry or thirsty
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
'Twas sin before, but now 'tis charity.
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
Now, Montague, sit fast; I seek for thee,

SICINIUS:
indeed, his fact, till now in the government of Lord

HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Excels whatever yet you look'd upon
That made the air unwholesome, when you cast
Of our own power: what think you of it?
Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
KING RICHARD II:
fall to you upon this, more than thanks and good
Either betray'd by falsehood of his guard
I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice: I
For certain drops of salt, your city Rome,
GONZALO:

CAPULET:
Will I withal endow a child of thine;

Will issue out again and bid us battle:
As if this flesh which walls about our life,
Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.

GRUMIO:
It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
All several sins, all used in each degree,

If ever I were wilful-negligent,
BAGOT:
BUCKINGHAM:

Why, so I did; but look'd for no reply.
With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had lived!
To-day, as I came by, I called there;

That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.
KING RICHARD III:
I, with blowing the fire, shall warm myself; for,
Servant:
With good old folks and let them tell thee tales
three-and-twenty, or that youth would sleep out the
Had he done so, himself had borne the crown,
For he hath still been tried a holy man.
And so in me; and so, I think, in all:

Two props of virtue for a Christian prince,
So will it, madam till I lie with you.

He had so; looking as it were--would I were hanged,
I saw good strawberries in your garden there

apples. But come; since this bar in law makes us
LADY CAPULET:

And cry 'Content' to that which grieves my heart,
Our musty superfluity. See, our best elders.
A ram, and bleated; and the fire-robed god,

MARCIUS:
And barbarism itself have pitied him.
Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
Kneel'd at my feet, and bade me be advised
Which when I saw, I reprehended them;
the way? Is it sad, and few words? or how? The
the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue

But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
PERDITA:
In whom already he's well graced, can not

They shall be satisfied: I'll read enough,
Be thus to them.
FRIAR PETER:
Why, what, i' devil's name, tailor, call'st thou this?
there's all the love they bear us.
I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
lying: it becomes none but tradesmen, and they
lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as lief
I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as

These both put by a poor petitioner,
Doth she not think me an old murderer,
Clown:
Not so big as a round little worm
Shall be this cold corpse on the earth's cold face;

For the flowers now, that frighted thou let'st fall
Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones.
With bag and baggage: many thousand on's
is too soft for him, say I draw our throne into a
JULIET:

We should infringe the holy privilege
Is this Menenius?
He may command me as my sovereign;
As it is here set down.
How fares our noble uncle, Lancaster?


And you but waste your words.


The open ear of youth doth always listen;
Never to marry with her though she would entreat:
But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger:
Beat thou the drum, that it speak mournfully:
And, for that dowry, I'll assure her of
Ay, now my sovereign speaketh like himself;
Was in the wreck; and, but he's something stain'd
him.
Or all will fall in broil.
Go, hie thee, hie thee from this slaughter-house,
To make her heavenly comforts of despair,
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.
No; I would tell what 'twere to be a judge,
As I before unparted to your worship,
Dispose of you.

To shape my legs of an unequal size;
leisure have discredited to him, and now is he
O, ho! entreat her!
For this was of much length,--the vile conclusion
Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
Is like a good thing, being often read,
ISABELLA:
though they be not to be talked on, yet they are
The man I am.
I'll after him, and see the event of this.
Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled:
But for my brother not a man would speak,
He does well in 't.
Your maidenheads growing: O Proserpina,
beguile Nature of her custom, so perfectly he is her
So then the Volsces stand but as at first,
I know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not:
JULIET:
I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the

Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
Sir, I cannot tell:
Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
My lord, this is one Lucio's information against me.
Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
breaking out.

Nor do I thee: though I did wish him dead,
EXETER:
Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
He was not taken well; he had not dined:
But to his foe supposed he must complain,
Pedant:
Pardon, I pray thee, for my mad mistaking.
ESCALUS:

PAULINA:



You are a saucy boy: is't so, indeed?

And, pretty fool, it stinted and said 'Ay.'

MENENIUS:
DUKE OF YORK:
Confess, confess, hath he not hit you here?

Both who he is and why he cometh hither
That Margaret your queen and my son Edward
I mean, my lords, those powers that the queen
Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor

He must be told on't, and he shall: the office
GLOUCESTER:
Soft! I will go along;
First Citizen:
Yes, Warwick, Edward dares, and leads the way.
God will in justice ward you as his soldiers;

You'll think it strange if I should marry her.
the dukes fall upon the king.
Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
To you a charge and trouble: to save both,
To prate and talk for life and honour 'fore
Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit
Like to a censer in a barber's shop:
Iron may hold with her, but never lutes.


JULIET:

TRANIO:
KING RICHARD III:
KATHARINA:
CAMILLO:


Will follow mine, if once they see them spread;
shortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,
I am sorry, sir, I have thus far stirr'd you: but
What, is the man lunatic?
Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.
Your eyes drop millstones, when fools' eyes drop tears:
O, yes, my lord, but very idle words:
Harp not on that string, madam; that is past.
WARWICK:
As 'twere my daughter's eyes: and, to be plain.
This earth shall have a feeling and these stones
PERDITA:

HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

To have free speech with you; and it concerns me

Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance,
I heard you say that you had rather refuse
A lack, how may I do it, having the hour limited,
Or else you famish; that's a threefold death.


POMPEY:
She is,
ANGELO:
It cannot be avoided but by this;

And take our leave, until we meet in heaven.
PETRUCHIO:
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
To curb the will of the nobility:


But the plain devil and dissembling looks,

What fit is this, good lady?
What man thou art.

youth with comeliness plucked all gaze his way, when
Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
who in a cheap estimation, is worth predecessors
Off with that bauble, throw it under-foot.
More monstrous standing by: whereof I reckon

And every day I cannot come to woo.
grain enough!
Even then will rush to knowledge. Go: fresh horses!
access to thee.
mistress is a respected woman.
How canst thou try them so?
Barely in title, not in revenue.
Can wash the balm off from an anointed king;
BIONDELLO:
Shepherd:
I'll warrant him for drowning; though the ship were
What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?

MENENIUS:
child! look thee here; take up, take up, boy;
My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear;
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?

Good aunt, stand up.


Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st,
Than Buckingham and his rash-levied army.
'O, farewell, Warwick!'
I mind to tell him plainly what I think.
appearing what we are, have some question with the
detects him: 'tis a blushing shamefast spirit that
Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones?
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
Let him thank me, that holp to send him thither;
not hand a rope more; use your authority: if you


To men of middle age. You're very welcome.
Lucentio is your name; of whence, I pray?
Why, so you are, my thrice renowned liege.
Methinks I so should term them, and the reverence
Was the first man that leap'd; cried, 'Hell is empty
Perjury, perjury, in the high'st degree
not by favour. Our king, being ready to leap out of
O' my word, the father's son: I'll swear,'tis a

But did I never speak of all that time?
For being more stone than it? O royal piece,
Do't! he will do't; for, look you, sir, he has as

KING EDWARD IV:
O, cut my lace in sunder, that my pent heart
In such a gorgeous palace!


QUEEN ELIZABETH:


malice in my breath. Meeting two such wealsmen as
And let the soul forth that adoreth thee,
PAULINA:
And liberty plucks justice by the nose;
Thou strokedst me and madest much of me, wouldst give me
Had servants true about me, that bare eyes
I will not marry yet; and, when I do, I swear,

Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
CAMILLO:
Ithaca full of moths. Come; I would your cambric
First Murderer:

HERMIONE:

POMPEY:
Soft, swain, awhile, beseech you;
Was wont to cheer his dad in mutinies?
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
PAULINA:
CAMILLO:

PRINCE EDWARD:
And if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach,
Herald:
To weed my vice and let his grow!
MONTAGUE:
Why, then, thy husband's lands I freely give thee.


To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
Razed out my imprese, leaving me no sign,
ANGELO:
CORIOLANUS:

KING RICHARD II:
To go along with us; for as we think,

I have yielded to: fresh embassies and suits,
As those that feed grow full, as blossoming time

As we this garden! We at time of year


Even to Cato's wish, not fierce and terrible
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds;
Here in my house do him disparagement:
Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom,
For which I must not plead, but that I am
Thus to retort your manifest appeal,
It is a bawdy planet, that will strike
Were he the veriest antic in the world.
Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York!
A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue;
Second Senator:

With promise of high pay and great rewards:
That I may never have you in suspect.
They fell together all, as by consent;
Whither?
A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
For raging wind blows up incessant showers,
For I have had such faults; but rather tell me,
Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.
But He, that hath the steerage of my course,
You speak a language that I understand not:

As hotly and as nobly with thy love
BRAKENBURY:
Thanks, brave Montgomery; and thanks unto you all:
By the suggestion of the queen's allies;


Your suit's unprofitable; stand up, I say.

KING RICHARD III:

I cannot blame her: by God's holy mother,

Could you not take some occasion without giving?
And slew your fathers, and with colours spread
TRANIO:

To honour me as thy king and sovereign,
The plate, corn, revenues and moveables,
Second Patrician:
PETRUCHIO:


Why brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
bridegroom wants
Gentleman:
Thither will I with you; for little office
I fear it is too choleric a meat.
it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
Interpretation should abuse and call this
No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
Six frozen winter spent,
As much for my poor brother as myself:

SICINIUS:
HERMIONE:
POLIXENES:

And what you do, do it unfeignedly.
If He, which is the top of judgment, should


Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
I'll use that tongue I have: if wit flow from't

And you shall have your bosom on this wretch,


And mothers that lack sons.
I lay me down a little while to breathe;

Heart-hardening spectacles; tell these sad women
My quarrel and this English queen's are one.
Welcome my lord; I dance attendance here;
For my lads to give their dears:
FERDINAND:
What, what, what!
But 'twas thy beauty that provoked me.

And the rarest that e'er came there.
Awaked the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,

How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!
Ghost of HASTINGS:
Neglect the visitation of my friends.
Do through the clouds behold this present hour,

Thy overflow of good converts to bad,
LADY GREY:

Yet know, my master, God omnipotent,
For no less spoil than glory,--
And for my sister and her princely sons,
EDWARD:
when she's fallen out with her husband. Your noble
Within this mile and half.
To make the perfect period of this peace.
Tush, I will stir about,
The which, how far off from the mind of Bolingbroke
The crown, usurp'd, disgraced his kingly glory.

But to your protestation; let me hear
LUCIO:
Be collected:
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,
My heart will be a burthen to me. Leave me,
Than violentest contrariety.
Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
That Marcius shall be consul:
afternoon?
With whom I am accused, I do confess

In suffering thus thy brother to be slaughter'd,

means to pay Bohemia the visitation which he justly owes him.
Ay, and more.

Is doom'd a prisoner by proud Bolingbroke:

SICINIUS:
You shall hear more ere morning.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Did us but loving wrong.
Come, Montague; for thou art early up,

Then murders, treasons and detested sins,
ARIEL:
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
KING EDWARD IV:
And there awake God's gentle-sleeping peace.
Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's;
Who hadst deserved more than a prison.
My dear wife's estimate, her womb's increase,


For him, I partly know his mind--to find thee
CLARENCE:

But then Aufidius was within my view,
We prove this very hour.
ISABELLA:
KING RICHARD III:
To-morrow; to-day; presently; you shall have the
ESCALUS:
No marvel, my lord, though it affrighted you;
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.

AUFIDIUS:
As thou hast made me by my dear lord's death!
Who sitting in the stocks refuge their shame,
What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
Masters of the people,

I mean, your voice,--for crowning of the king.
An he had been cannibally given, he might have
I think, this coming summer, the King of Sicilia
Second Murderer:
Come on, strike up!

Will bring me to consider that which may
Beseech you, father.
As will disperse itself through all the veins
DUKE VINCENTIO:
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Be an arch-villain; believe it, royal prince:

The washing of ten tides!
Lords, give us leave: I'll try this widow's wit.
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
Which was sometime his general; who loved him

A title for a maid of all titles the worst.
The new-heal'd wound of malice should break out,
Or whether he be 'scaped away or no
He must before the deputy, sir; he has given him
My uncle Rivers talk'd how I did grow
And now, instead of mounting barded steeds
Never came poison from so sweet a place.
And never look upon thy face again.
Why do you wring your hands, and beat your breast,
I do but keep the peace: put up thy sword,
First, know, my horse is tired; my master and


Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up
MOPSA:
Thanks, gentle Norfolk: stay by me, my lords;
In this I'll be impartial; be you judge


Mopsa must be your mistress: marry, garlic,
Hast thou tapp'd out and drunkenly caroused:
What thinkest thou, will our friends prove all true?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
If, rather than to marry County Paris,
That so I may, by this device, at least

Save back to England, all the world's my way.

Where it seems best unto your royal self.
LADY GREY:
COMINIUS:
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:

Those will I muster up: and thou, son Clarence,

And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea,
BENVOLIO:
To mild entreaties, God in heaven forbid
With any but with us.
With oath kept waking and with brawling fed:
Some of those seven are dried by nature's course,
Bohemia greets you from himself by me;
He shall be endured:
BIONDELLO:
Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
And lay the summer's dust with showers of blood
CLIFFORD:
I slew him not; but to my own disgrace
Were it not pity that this goodly boy
You that durst swear at your mistress Bianca
Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
LEONTES:

QUEEN MARGARET:
but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I
O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
BENVOLIO:

QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Her suit is now to repossess those lands;
KING RICHARD III:
Your stinking greasy caps in hooting at
Thy word is current with him for my death,
May have some scope to beat, or else I swoon
3 KING HENRY VI
LUCIO:
Camillo was his help in this, his pander:
Which to this hour bewail the injury,
You have show'd a tender fatherly regard,
thee straight,
And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
Not Isabel?

And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, is

Have by my hands of life bereaved him.

Gentleman:
And that you not delay the present, but,
You will be there, I know.
On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd.

Now prisoner to the palsy, chastise thee
Let this be done.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you, avoid
Exactly is perform'd: but there's more work.

Now cheer each other in each other's love
and your sister. Angelo had never the purpose to
From off my hands, here in the view of men
DORSET:

KATHARINA:
We still have known thee for a holy man.
I am, in this, commanded to deliver
PETRUCHIO:
I have, my liege.
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:
Too ceremonious and traditional
To be no better than a homely swain;
Good wombs have borne bad sons.
Officer:
you fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor
PETRUCHIO:

Lead us from hence, where we may leisurely
CAPULET:



Then thus. Baptista is safe, talking with the
necessary for a cut-purse; a good nose is requisite
Tremble and start at wagging of a straw,
QUEEN MARGARET:
WESTMORELAND:

Away, begone; the sport is at the best.
O piteous spectacle! O bloody times!
Fiend, thou torment'st me ere I come to hell!
CLIFFORD:
Myself thus alter'd with 't.
I did in time collect myself and thought

Loved me above the measure of a father;
GLOUCESTER:
made me businesses which none without thee can
GLOUCESTER:
Not to be pardon'd, am content withal.
Prove violence; in the which three great ones suffer,
I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.
ANGELO:
I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch!
LUCIO:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I'll tell you, Sir Lucentio: when the priest
They shall stand for seed: they had gone down too,
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in
The household of the king.
The mother to a hopeful prince, here standing

GREMIO:
O God!--O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault

The flower-de-luce being one! O, these I lack,
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket
KING LEWIS XI:
for me here to-day? much upon this time have
GREGORY:
That dog, that had his teeth before his eyes,

My life stands in the level of your dreams,
Do make myself a suitor to your daughter,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
To make a bondmaid and a slave of me;
Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this league

ROMEO:
not there for the goose.
Messenger:
They are.

BUCKINGHAM:
Post:
Scratches with briers,
As rank as any flax-wench that puts to
DUCHESS:
They have chose a consul that will from them take
GRUMIO:
Hath thus stood for his country: therefore,
My hate to Marcius: where I find him, were it
Servant:
Have no delight to pass away the time,
ROMEO:
When, both your voices blended, the great'st taste
He is; and, see, he brings the mayor along.
And, if though canst for blushing, view this face,
She comes to do you good.
Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably.
Scars to move laughter only.
The treason that my haste forbids me show.
By so much is the wonder in extremes.

Mine honour for his truth: who being so heighten'd,
They must take it in sense that feel it.
And fight and die is death destroying death;
For I will buz abroad such prophecies
LADY GREY:
Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
More than the instant army we can make,
Of much less value is my company
Most ignorant of what he's most assured,

It shall be eased, if France can yield relief.
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me
Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of your
As firmly as yourself were still in place:

Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
Second Servant:
I have sat too long.
We will persuade him, be it possible,

The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster,
Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
I do beweep to many simple gulls
KATHARINA:
I would with such perfection govern, sir,
This is a gentle provost: seldom when
PAULINA:
And she as much in love, her means much less
Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished:
BENVOLIO:
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;

If this prove true, they'll pay for't:
grant this.
Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil, adieu;
Take to you, as your predecessors have,




Send to her, by the man that slew her brothers,
Read o'er this paper while the glass doth come.
When they should serve their sovereign in the west?
Against all noble sufferance.
CORIOLANUS:
His captain, steward, deputy-elect,
And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men,
My blemishes in them, and so still think of
Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight;
MENENIUS:
Shall I go win my daughter to thy will?
From wayward sickness, and no grounded malice.
Nurse:
PRINCE EDWARD:
If tinkers may have leave to live,
For which the heavens, taking angry note,
Have other some: why, 'tis a happy thing
God-a-mercy, Grumio! then he shall have no odds.
O, she knew well
Sir,--
Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
ISABELLA:

Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed!
They break their faith to God as well as us:
Without a parallel; those being all my study,
A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in
And in thy need such comfort come to thee


LADY GREY:
Clerk-like experienced, which no less adorns
HENRY PERCY:
Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,
Provost:
And for that offence
He loves your people
mistress and be happy rivals in Bianco's love, to
not to kill the duke.
And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
Is't a verdict?
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.

Beyond the mark of others: our then dictator,
TRANIO:
But, for his purpose in the coronation.
You wish'd us parties, we'll deliver you

Ay, sir, it is too true; God help the while!
ALONSO:

He was not so resolved when last we spake together.
CATESBY:
His deputy anointed in His sight,
Before the common distribution, at
Let them have scope: though what they do impart
As old as Sibyl and as curst and shrewd
enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword
ANGELO:


CAMILLO:

POMPEY:
Suitors to her and rivals in my love,
For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride?
Let them lay by their helmets and their spears,
Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soon
What is the news from this good deputy?

The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
upon too trivial motion; one that converses more
Hath he not pass'd the noble and the common?
The king! why, who's that?

CAMILLO:
Is colder tidings, yet they must be told.
never bring them to light: would he were returned!
Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt!
This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
JULIET:
Upon our territories; and have already
Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the
Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
And we are graced with wreaths of victory.

Hours, minutes? noon, midnight? and all eyes
And Walter's dagger was not come from sheathing:

Rebell'd against the belly, thus accused it:
Tendering the precious safety of my prince,
Nay, now dispatch; 'twas I that stabb'd young Edward,
I come to pierce it, or to give thee mine.
And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.'
Ay, and for an assault too.

Boy:

Or my divine soul answer it in heaven.
Respect to your great place! and let the devil
But no more deep will I endart mine eye

Petruchio is my name; Antonio's son,
And Roman Lucrece for her chastity:
KING LEWIS XI:



That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old
As morning roses newly wash'd with dew:
That thou betray'dst Polixenes,'twas nothing;
Doting like me and like me banished,
And only in that safety died her brothers.

KING RICHARD II:
That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.

Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart,
LEONTES:
Methinks he looks as though he were in love:

It is not truer he is Angelo
Rise up, good aunt.

I could beat forty of them.
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
Put this in any liquid thing you will,
It shall be what o'clock I say it is.
'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
never saw you before in all my life.
Ere he attain his easeful western bed:
Who would be thence that has the benefit of access?
yard, and the tailor with his last, the fisher with
NORTHUMBERLAND:


True! I'll be sworn they are true.
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
ANGELO:
of our two cousins coming into London.
Third Servingman:
and is hanged betimes in the morning, may sleep the

Are bringing forth our youth. We'll break our walls,
Exempt from envy, but not from disdain,
Which He hath given for fence impregnable,
I never yet beheld that special face
But, sirrah, not for my sake, but your master's, I advise
I think it well:
and, he returning to break our necks, they respect not us.
But who comes here? the new-deliver'd Hastings?
It is, it is: hie hence, be gone, away!
ROMEO:
That I should yet absent me from your bed:
This cloth thou dip'dst in blood of my sweet boy,
Ay me, I see the downfall of our house!
And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate
Brother Petruchio, sister Katharina,
Noble Marcius!
O good but most unwise patricians! why,
KING RICHARD III:
If now I court not but omit, my fortunes
Else let my brother die,
The widow likes it not, for she looks very sad.
How long continued, and what stock he springs of,
him soundly, sir: well, was it fit for a servant to
Towards her deserved children is enroll'd
Have thy desire.

cause is, calling both the parties knaves. You are
What his breast forges, that his tongue must vent;
I, like a child, will go by thy direction.
Right,
And lie full low, graved in the hollow ground.

Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them.
will;'tis strongly wedged up in a block-head, but
Anointed, crowned, planted many years,
Thy gown? why, ay: come, tailor, let us see't.
Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear,
Say, 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'

Contend against thy valour. Know thou first,
Or else be impudently negative,
Not since widow Dido's time.

For this, consorted with the citizens,
Rough cradle for such little pretty ones!
SICINIUS:

The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier,

With aid of soldiers to this needful war.
KATHARINA:
Paulina! She had one eye declined for the loss of
Off with his head, and set it on York gates;
And here he comes.

O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
ROMEO:
Staying for thine to keep him company:
The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition,
Where and what time your majesty shall please.

To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight;
Haberdasher:

What, my old worshipful old master? yes, marry, sir:
BENVOLIO:
I may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo
He kills her in her own humour.
And leave the world for me to bustle in!

Like offices of pity. Sir, be prosperous
VIRGILIA:
That Anne my wife is sick and like to die:
ARCHIDAMUS:


No, it begins again.
EMILIA:
And free access and favour as the rest:
knew not what to take and what to leave, ha?
To gather in some debts, my son Lucentio
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate; or else shall I?

ROMEO:
Third Gentleman:
HORTENSIO:

QUEEN ELIZABETH:
That I am clear from this misdeed of Edward's,
With speedy help doth lend redress.'
Four or five women once that tended me?
Tears then for babes; blows and revenge for me


So.
Have I had children's voices?
thing. The wills above be done! but I would fain
Noble prince,
Messenger:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Who spake of brotherhood? who spake of love?
ISABELLA:
I will, my lord: God give your grace good rest!
A shadow like an angel, with bright hair
Pluck up thy spirits; look cheerfully upon me.
BRUTUS:
My friends of noble touch, when I am forth,

And kiss me, Kate, we will be married o'Sunday.

To dim his glory and to stain the track
My gracious sovereign?
QUEEN:
Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
Here comes a man; let's stay till he be past.

Very well mended. Kiss him for that, good widow.
GREMIO:

CURTIS:
And men ne'er spend their fury on a child.
I pray now, call her.
That issue out of dust. Happy thou art not;
GLOUCESTER:
QUEEN MARGARET:
teeth and tear it; O, I warrant it, how he mammocked
To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength,
You soothed not, therefore hurt not: but
Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties
WARWICK:
We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
Now, had I not the dash of my former life in me,

O, had it been a stranger, not my child,

POLIXENES:
Lord:

executed, and sleep afterwards.
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
If not, elsewhere they meet with charity:
'That I receive the general food at first,
My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I will back thee.
No truly sir; not a penny.
The bloody office of his timeless end.
I thought you had been willing to resign.
O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
CAMILLO:
DORSET:
More worthier than their voices. They know the corn
Aside, aside; here is more matter for a hot brain:
We two, my lord,
Yea.
Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine.
CORIOLANUS:
And therefore has he closely mew'd her up,
God save you, sir!
Though we have spent our harvest of this king,
My praises made thee first a soldier, so,

Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
HASTINGS:
From off the battlements of yonder tower;
And hearten those that fight in your defence:
We lop away, that bearing boughs may live:
Go hence in debt: and therefore, like a cipher,
GLOUCESTER:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
CALIBAN:
There's no remedy;
Slander myself as false to Edward's bed;
We set the axe to thy usurping root;
BUCKINGHAM:
Or I'll be buried in the king's highway,

OXFORD:
No doubt well bring it to a happy issue.
This female bastard hence and that thou bear it

Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
YORK:
I would fain say, bleed tears, for I am sure my
Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven,
Is goads, thorns, nettles, tails of wasps,
Farewell, kind neighbours: we wish'd Coriolanus
In him, a royal prince, and many moe
Beget your happiness, be happy then,
Thanks, noble Clarence; worthy brother, thanks.
ISABELLA:
Thy mother's name is ominous to children.

So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench;


By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
GLOUCESTER:
Perhaps, him and her, sir: what have you to do?
Buckingham's army is dispersed and scatter'd;
My sovereign liege, no letters; and few words,
Who makest a show but darest not strike, thy conscience
reports; but the best is, he lives not in them.
Mark his condition and the event; then tell me
No, no, no, no, no.
therefore fire: do thy duty, and have thy duty; for
BAPTISTA:
YORK:
No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway,
But thus, I trust, you will not marry her.
'Come on, you cowards! you were got in fear,
Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels,

My affections

So foolish sorrow bids your stones farewell.
But few,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
To, to, to--
With letters of your love to her at large.
Not he that sets his foot upon her back.
Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life:
Before you answer Warwick. His demand

Thou shalt not do't.
Did this break-from her: 'Good Antigonus,
Upon the part o' the people, in whose power

Henry the Fourth by conquest got the crown.


CAMILLO:

COMINIUS:
Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me
'Tis good; though music oft hath such a charm
And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms:
With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls
And thy no greater father.
And fawn on rage with base humility,

This way the coverlet, another way the sheets:

Now will he sit under a medlar tree,

GLOUCESTER:
In any proportion or in any language.
With all my heart. This fellow I remember,
With mine own breath release all duty's rites:
GLOUCESTER:
Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle.
Who goes there?
Ghost of Prince Edward:
HORTENSIO:
Be he unto me! this do I beg of God,
Her fruit-trees all upturned, her hedges ruin'd,
So long a-growing and so leisurely,
There doth my father lie; and there, this night,
And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me.
My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle!
getting wenches with child, wronging the ancientry,
Clifford, repent in bootless penitence.

I am content to look on: what to speak,
Was it not so?
There's more behind that is more gratulate.
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant
The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this;
Ere three days pass, which hath as long loved me
My good Camillo,
Whilst I remember
And I am struck with sorrow. Take him up.
TRANIO:
Or did he make the jest against his will?
That brain'd my purpose. But, peace be with him!
Elected him our absence to supply,
and I will have more time to prepare me, or they

Servant:

Boatswain:
Intended or committed was this fault?
The country, our dear nurse, or else thy person,
For on my heart they tread now whilst I live;
With downright payment, show'd unto my father.
Third Servingman:


And little look'd for at your helping hands.
And see our pleasure herein executed.
Unless thou couldst put on some other shape,
VINCENTIO:
The queen your mother rounds apace: we shall
the princess my sister called my father father; and
And so he vanish'd: then came wandering by
Now breathe we, lords: good fortune bids us pause,

GREGORY:


CORIOLANUS:
BRUTUS:


Things past redress are now with me past care.
LEONTES:
LADY CAPULET:
QUEEN MARGARET:


He neither does nor shall.
CATESBY:

She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
Then leave me not, my lords; be resolute;

BUCKINGHAM:
Against all sense you do importune her:

He did, my lord.
Notice to Escalus and Angelo,
Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high;

He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage,
I'll steal away.



I thank you, sir.
Gold were as good as twenty orators,
O God! if my deep prayers cannot appease thee,
That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury:
Than words can witness, or your thoughts can guess.



Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would
I am a subject fit to jest withal,
rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
Servant:

I fear he will.
It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
O, no! alas, I rather hate myself
an into their estimation and report: but he hath so
You peers, continue this united league:
And, if you will, tell what hath happened,
PETRUCHIO:
Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir; but yet,
Her advocate to the loud'st. We do not know
The tongues o' the common mouth: I do despise them;

Wrapp'd in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers,

Thanks, dear Isabel.
Be left her to perform. Come, follow us;
And both the princes had been breathing here,
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
behavior. We are not to stay all together, but to
HORTENSIO:
MENENIUS:
No richer than his honour: how he glisters

And with thy lips keep in my soul awhile!
Messenger:
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:

Close by, my master.
His youngest daughter, beautiful Binaca,
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter--
The end of war's uncertain, but this certain,

But I shall grieve you to report the rest.
So well, nothing so well; no, nor mean better:


And plague injustice with the pains of hell.
My wife to France: from whence, set forth in pomp,
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
But for my bonny Kate, she must with me.
Let us alone to guard Corioli:
lately came from the king, commands the contrary.
BUCKINGHAM:

Say Warwick was our anchor; what of that?
HORTENSIO:
A mad-cup ruffian and a swearing Jack,

more and leave this young man in pawn till I bring it you.
DUKE:
And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven;
With wisdom I might fear, my Doricles,

Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
ROMEO:
And tell 's a tale.
And that he does I weep: myself am Naples,
And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy:
Boy:
Should a like language use to all degrees
LUCENTIO:

Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit;
I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
Comfort, my liege; why looks your grace so pale?
Mark you this, people?

SICINIUS:
BIONDELLO:
CORIOLANUS:

BUCKINGHAM:
And thine, Lord Clifford; and you both have vow'd revenge
Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it.
Opposing laws with strokes and here defying
My chamber-councils, wherein, priest-like, thou
Therefore he sends to know your lordship's pleasure,
What seal is that, that hangs without thy bosom?
Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded,
Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself?
And hung their rotten coffins up in chains,
With that dear blood which it hath fostered;

As that is desperate which we would prevent.
VINCENTIO:

And that to the infection of my brains
You do not purpose to him; and as hardly
And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,
the people.

the map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known
And only hitherward. I leave your honours.
sheep-shearing.
But for his own; and for the right of that
And stole into the covert of the wood:
Come, bustle, bustle; caparison my horse.
The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
maintained all by helping Baptista's eldest daughter
In his behalf.
A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices
Will not have earth to know.
POLIXENES:
To wail the tide, as her mother doth.
EDWARD:
BIANCA:
Would thus have wrought you,--for the stone is mine--
BUCKINGHAM:


favour is well approved by your tongue. What's the
I'll do thee service for so good a gift.


I should inform thee farther. Lend thy hand,

Is for a precious creature: as she's rare,
For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too!
KING RICHARD III:
To be your comforter when he is gone.
Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
YORK:
Roman:
GLOUCESTER:
The odds for high and low's alike.
'Proud,' and 'I thank you,' and 'I thank you not;'
To say you have seen a better.
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
For I have bills for money by exchange


Well have we pass'd and now repass'd the seas

O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine,
First Servingman:
For what I have I need not to repeat;
Think but upon the wrong he did us all,
GREEN:
BUCKINGHAM:
That all but we enjoy; for how can we,
A choking gall and a preserving sweet.
I do beseech you,
Marry, I fare well for here is cheer enough.

As he began, and not unknit himself
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
Girl:
Much more a shrew of thy impatient humour.
I do defy thy conjurations,
For I have given here my soul's consent
It's supper-time, my lord;
Enforce the present execution
Nay, and you shall hear some.
Starve-lackey the rapier and dagger man, and young

At upper end o' the table, now i' the middle;


Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare.

And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine;
Which we devise him.
And bury all, which yet distinctly ranges,
'Jesu preserve thee! welcome, Bolingbroke!'
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
You understand me: over and beside
Thou shouldst not scape me here.

I will proclaim thee, Angelo; look for't:
Good news or bad, that thou comest in so bluntly?
Whither you will, so I were from your sights.
Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lovest,

First, provost, let me bail these gentle three.
KING RICHARD III:
Here is the head; I'll carry it myself.
Like graves i' the holy churchyard.
But when from under this terrestrial ball
Comfort, dear mother: God is much displeased
Well hast thou spoken, cousin: be it so.


I think so. Kill'd!
Selves of themselves, to your recomforture.
I say, without characters, fame lives long.
DORCAS:
To what we wildly do, so we profess
Is it not strange and strange?

To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know
Supposing that they saw the king's ship wreck'd




And he shall think that thou, which know'st the way
Your only choice.
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts:
Is spotless reputation: that away,
My liege, one word.

Love they to live that love and honour have.
Consisting equally of horse and foot;
VINCENTIO:
Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.

cardinally given, might have been accused in
is here! I think our fellows are asleep.
That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,
and a heaven to throne in.
But nothing spake in warrant from himself.
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:

JULIET:
CLAUDIO:
EARL OF SALISBURY:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

Might come to me again. Who's there?
You envy my advancement and my friends':
In to our tent; the air is raw and cold.
'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no title,



But I will write again to Mantua,
SICINIUS:
At the queen's be't: 'good' should be pertinent
Lovel and Ratcliff, look that it be done:
I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
I have too much believed mine own suspicion:
Join'd in commission with him; but either
And while I pause, serve in your harmony.
Good morrow, Richmond!
Verily!
He dreads his wife.
Come I appellant to this princely presence.
BRUTUS:

How tame, when men and women are alone,
Is the determined respite of my wrongs:
From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns:
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
Tut, that's a foolish observation:

What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,

O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint,
Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
The mighty Warwick, and did fight for me?
As dice are to be wish'd by one that fixes
And gracious be the issue!
LORD WILLOUGHBY:
RUTLAND:
Imagine howling: 'tis too horrible!
That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
I pray you all, tell me what they deserve
Sir, let me be so bold as ask you,
Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
GLOUCESTER:
Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous;
Under Cominius.
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
In lists, on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
Then he disdains to shine; for by the book
The base is right; 'tis the base knave that jars.
ANTIGONUS:
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
You must return and mend it.
Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?

SICINIUS:
naming punishes me with the remembrance of that
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
On me, and you, and mine, and yours for this!

Why, sir?
My mirth it much displeased, but pleased my woe.
His garments are rich, but he wears
I here renounce him and return to Henry.
Ay, sir.
And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.

Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,

ELBOW:
CORIOLANUS:
But my heart bleeds; and most accursed am I
O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
My name hath touch'd your ears it is Menenius.
KING EDWARD IV:
Was ever father so bemoan'd his son?
And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Then I will give you the serving-creature.
Tullus Aufidius will appear well in these wars, his

Please it your majesty to give me leave,
His name is Romeo, and a Montague;
It is; you lie, you lie:
Fool-hardiness; not I.
Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin
Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,
If not a feodary, but only he
Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground,
Where is the master, boatswain?
The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
I do beseech you,
Shepherd:
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
STANLEY:


That in their chains fetter'd the kingly lion
What then?
Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now:
Noting this penury, to myself I said
the bear half dined on the gentleman: he's at it
But what's the matter, Clarence?  may I know?
POMPEY:
Out upon you! what a man are you!
GLOUCESTER:
You had a bastard by Polixenes,

The fabric of his folly, whose foundation
BRUTUS:
Enrich the time to come with smooth-faced peace,
JULIET:
Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
But so it is, my haste doth call me hence,

Farewell, good Pompey. Commend me to the prison,

Let him die for't.
Leave your prating: since these good men are
To take in many towns ere almost Rome
thy conscience flies out.


LUCENTIO:
Ever right.

GLOUCESTER:
ROMEO:

MIRANDA:
Or else you would not have bestow'd the heir
There is differency between a grub and a butterfly;
smutch'd thy nose?
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
Known and allied to yours.
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
Or ere I journey to your father's house.
Patience, good Katharina, and Baptista too.
That runaway's eyes may wink and Romeo
Of love?
Of these supposed-evils, to give me leave,
lieve be a condemned man.
And to that vineyard is a planched gate,
And make triumphant fires; strew flowers before them:

Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king:
silence in it; and the place answer to convenience.

To execute the charge my father gave me
sighs; and conjure thee to pardon Rome, and thy
These nails should rend that beauty from my cheeks.
ROMEO:
What wouldst thou have with me?
Though sometimes you do blench from this to that,

ARCHIDAMUS:
The consul Coriolanus.

with two broken points: his horse hipped with an
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And that be heir to his unhappiness!
And pull'd the law upon you.
In this so sudden business.
GLOUCESTER:
I told him that your father was at Venice,
What is your quarrel? how began it first?
To feast and sport us at thy father's house.
Ay, boy.
LUCENTIO:
That his blood flows, or that his appetite
And did supply thee at thy garden-house

AEdile:

These fifteen years you have been in a dream;
Nurse:
And there repose you for this night.
Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend.
Thou darest not this and that to prove more fortunes
In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed

CATESBY:

Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.
Nurse:
The bitter clamour of two eager tongues,

Though therein you can never be too noble,

Even he, your wife, this lady, and myself,

Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus.
Servile to all the skyey influences,
I'll make a corse of him that disobeys.
Ambitious York doth level at thy crown,
The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
And Warwick shall disprove it. You forget
Or die a soldier, as I lived a king.

CURTIS:
Gardener, for telling me these news of woe,
Second Lord:

LUCENTIO:
And how shall we continue Claudio,
And given me justice, justice, justice, justice!

ALL:
Bless'd his three sons with his victorious arm,
Gave hope thou wast in being, have preserved

I thank your ladyship; well, good madam.


He flouted us downright.
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
As closely to conceal what we impart:
Hence with it, and together with the dam
And bleat the one at the other: what we changed
GRUMIO:
Into something rich and strange.

I have done. Come, you promised me a tawdry-lace
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Let me embrace thee, sour adversity,
An undergoing stomach, to bear up
Have strain'd to appear thus: if one jot beyond

PARIS:
As he forth walked on his way:--
passion of wonder appeared in them; but the wisest
A Player:
Still thus, and thus; still worse!
More than my body's parting with my soul!
But if I thrive, the gain of my attempt
Think you, but that I know our state secure,
I shall, my lord.
BENVOLIO:




KING EDWARD IV:
Do't not, thou split'st thine own.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
The stars, I see, will kiss the valleys first:
Is true and false; and what he with his oath
KING RICHARD II:
My parasite, my soldier, statesman, all:
Give signal to the fight, and to it, lords!
Not like a guest; so you shall pay your fees
With old Menenius, and those senators

By my head, here come the Capulets.
He dies for Claudio's death.
Now let him speak: 'tis charity to show.

bread and garlic: say that I said so. Farewell.
Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd
Yourself into a power tyrannical;
be a tall fellow of thy hands.
And be true king indeed, thou but the shadow.
Nay,'tis true.
God save your good worships! Marcius is coming

First Soldier:
Like to a harvest-man that's task'd to mow
With all the admired beauties of Verona:
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
RATCLIFF:
Sir, by your leave: having come to Padua
Yes, worthy sir,
MARCIUS:
And these and all are all amiss employ'd.

It shall be seven ere I go to horse:
The heavens so dim by day. A savage clamour!
Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
He said he had wounds, which he could show
If your worship will take order for the drabs and
Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo, came I hither,
These were his very words.
I thought thou hadst been resolute.
Of such as have before endured the like.
No good at all that I can do for him;
I was moved withal.

This shows a sound affection.
Prove me, my gracious sovereign.
Your temples burned in their cement, and
If ever you disturb our streets again,
What is his name?
Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife?

Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
There's time enough for that;
Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
Of either, madam.
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition.
How long is't since?
The state and inclination of the day:
At Ely House.
And full as oft came Edward to my side,
KING RICHARD III:
Nay, then you lie: it is the blessed sun.
GRUMIO:
But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness

ISABELLA:

'Tis government that makes them seem divine;
BRUTUS:
Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
That in his nonage council under him,
O bloody Richard! miserable England!
Execute all things; for no kind of traffic
Than dogs that are as often beat for barking
Were then but subjects; being now a subject,
To cleave a heart in twain.

And wilt thou learn of me?
Didst thou not mark the king, what words he spake,
Besides, you know, it draws something near to the
Respecting her that's gone. Besides, the gods
The royal fool thou copest with,--
And entertain a cheerful disposition.
PETRUCHIO:
You kiss by the book.
Second Officer:

DUKE VINCENTIO:
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree:
Do plainly give you out an unstain'd shepherd,
SICINIUS:
Because thy father Henry did usurp;
Against the thing I say. Answer to this:

Farewell, dear father!
MARIANA:
My brother Montague shall post to London:

This lady's husband, Sir Richard Grey, was slain,
Traitors!
Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,
What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet?
Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
Let's write good angel on the devil's horn:
That I should snarl and bite and play the dog.
Believe me, thou talkest of an admirable conceited
Would not have been so stern.
live, forget to drink after thee.
The dignity of this act was worth the audience of
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
Be gone;
For to supply the places at the table,
I knew she would.
Now do your duty throughly, I advise you:
Say as he says, or we shall never go.
Than at the strangeness of it.
I make a broken delivery of the business; but the
And never see day that the happy sees,
Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!
As ever in ambitious strength I did
I know my remedy; I must go fetch the
To bandy word for word and frown for frown;
O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread,
To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
Pitchers have ears.
Have we march'd on without impediment;
And pay them when you part.
My evils conjured to remembrance and
Let me desire your company: he must come,
Madam, with all my heart.

I am glad to see your ladyship.
O, sir, you must: and therefore I beseech you
Go sleep, and hear us.

Force me to keep you as a prisoner,

My love and fear glued many friends to thee;

Offended us you have not, but the king.
SEBASTIAN:
Good queen, my lord,
SEBASTIAN:
That nature makes. You see, sweet maid, we marry
Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
As traitors do.
Let me speak:
As shall be proved upon you?
Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear:
To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
GREMIO:
Mine enemy has more power.
Wife to thy Edward, to thy slaughter'd son,
And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet:
My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets!
Second Murderer:
ESCALUS:
Away!
Thou chidest me well: proud Bolingbroke, I come
Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
For divers unknown reasons. I beseech you,
Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
Most piteous to be wild, I have dispatch'd in post
His name that valiant duke hath left with thee;
A most auspicious star, whose influence
your pleasures; at the least if you take it as a
Nurse:
QUEEN MARGARET:
Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first:
And brought desired help from Burgundy:
Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger
In the devotion of a subject's love,
A recreant and most degenerate traitor
JULIET:
The ship, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?

It is yours;
Take, then, this your companion by the hand,

Had borne the business!'
LADY CAPULET:
Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.

Why did you wish me milder? would you have me
Then I salute you with this kingly title:

The army of the queen mean to besiege us.
Witness my son, now in the shade of death;

Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
Good day, Camillo.
And therefore, personally I lay my claim

out of the house: prithee, call my master to him.
And with your queen. I am his cupbearer:
To touch his growth nearer than he touch'd mine.
If you'll stand fast, we'll beat them to their wives,

O, kill me too!

promise-keeping.
Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
Stand more for number than for accompt.
Life and these lips have long been separated:
When you have done, repair to Crosby Place.
Give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me
from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run
hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.
Starr'd most unluckily, is from my breast,
But be it as it may: I here entail

And rapt in secret studies. Thy false uncle--

And there present yourself and your fair princess,
The pendent world; or to be worse than worst
HASTINGS:
To God, his sovereign and to him disloyal;
I was not much afeard; for once or twice
As if that whatsoever god who leads him
our noble acceptance of them. Ingratitude is
new ship to purge melancholy and air himself: for,
Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough.
ANGELO:
GLOUCESTER:
For their advantage and your highness' loss.
gentleman of the greatest promise that ever came
There shall not at your father's house these
Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for we'll
O, no, no, no.
And she shall be sole victress, Caesar's Caesar.

SEBASTIAN:

Who had, no doubt, some noble creature in her,
speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge.
CORIOLANUS:
Than hear say how I got them.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
My lords, forbear this talk; here comes the king.

For which I do discharge you of your office:
Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap:
CAMILLO:
CAPULET:
As much unto my good lord chamberlain!
Good or bad?
And I am tied to be obedient;
Which sounded like a clamour in a vault,
They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
No; God forbid your grace should be forsworn.
ARIEL:
My remedy is then, to pluck it out.
Provost:
The man I speak of cannot in the world
What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?

present. Why should I carry lies abroad?
Our prayers to the gods, which is a comfort
ROMEO:
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.

My lord, I dare not: Sir Pierce of Exton, who
In me it seems it will make wise men mad.
VOLUMNIA:
Hath held his current and defiled himself!
As I wish you were.
KATHARINA:
Presented to my knife his throat: I took him;
CLAUDIO:
Shall rue the hour that ever thou wast born.
I spy a black, suspicious, threatening cloud,
Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their
so he then took her to be, who began to be much
Ay, my lord;
Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,
CORIOLANUS:
First Citizen:
I was a pack-horse in his great affairs;
Fall deep in love with thee; and her great charms
Come, enough.
Now, as I live, I will. My nobler friends,
For our access, whose hap shall be to have her
Beseech you, sir, be merry; you have cause,
eyes; there was speech in their dumbness, language
KING EDWARD IV:
ANTIGONUS:
talk we of these traitorly rascals, whose miseries
Fellows in arms, and my most loving friends,
To your own bents dispose you: you'll be found,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
With these forced thoughts, I prithee, darken not
This hand, fast wound about thy coal-black hair

You something know; yet I believe there comes
and children are even now to be afresh lamented.

Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
PAULINA:
Second Soldier:
England is safe, if true within itself?
They sit conferring by the parlor fire.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Let me have open means to come to them,
GONZALO:
LUCENTIO:
For York in justice puts his armour on.


You would entreat me rather go than stay.

How I may formally in person bear me
Unfurnish me of reason. They are come.
Nurse:
He shall not pass you. Twice have the trumpets sounded;
your tongues, and not a word more.
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
GLOUCESTER:
To the utmost of a man, and giddy censure
As gentle and as jocund as to jest
Ay, but not mine own desire.

wife was brought to bed of twenty money-bags at a
LUCENTIO:
My lord, the army of the Duke of Buckingham--
QUEEN MARGARET:
Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite
I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away;

not, man; here's no harm intended to thee.
LUCIO:

MARCIUS:
Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
MENENIUS:
GLOUCESTER:

Of laughing with a sigh?--a note infallible
it follows,

And I could laugh, I am light and heavy. Welcome.
Than most have of his age.
And for this once my will shall stand for law.
And yet 'not proud,' mistress minion, you,



Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee
Lady:
Shepherd:
Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
QUEEN MARGARET:


Your loving motion toward the common body,
'Tis done, my gracious lord.
What were I best to say? her father's brother
To lingering sufferance. Answer me to-morrow,
'Tis well; and hold your own, in any case,


And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
MERCUTIO:
Villains, set down the corse; or, by Saint Paul,
KING HENRY VI:
But shall we wear these honours for a day?
I pray thee, mark me--that a brother should
No doubt the murderous knife was dull and blunt
NICHOLAS:
Having fully dined before.
Such a mad marriage never was before:

warm them. Now, were not I a little pot and soon
A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
Methinks the truth should live from age to age,
Where you shall find me well accompanied
To bear his image and renew his glories!
But that the extreme peril of the case,
ESCALUS:
Above the moon: we must be burnt for you.
This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves;
These are a side that would be glad to have
KING RICHARD II:
warning: the deputy cannot abide a whoremaster: if
Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick;
combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was fought in
MERCUTIO:
TYBALT:
But repetition of what thou hast marr'd;


Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
Ay; or else 'twere hard luck, being in so
To question of his apprehension.
Nor a musician, as I seem to be;
nothing still.

COMINIUS:
O, ten times more, than tigers of Hyrcania.
And his great person perish.
with the buttock of the night than with the forehead
SAMPSON:
To o'erthrow law and in one self-born hour

And blow it to the source from whence it came:
Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest,

I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request,
We have not yet been seen in any house,
Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.
And thou art flying to a fresher clime:
Let's each one send unto his wife;
But do you hear, sir? have you married my daughter
With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments;
GLOUCESTER:


All:
Third Servingman:

What, art thou waking?
How should he be made, then?
CLARENCE:
Fertile the isle, the temple much surpassing
Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,

Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
FLORIZEL:
Make me not sighted like the basilisk:
In thy hand clutch'd as many millions, in
How now! what's the matter?

There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
Have done a drunken slaughter, and defaced
Affection's edge in me, were she as rough


Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!
Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
comondy a Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick?

And when she is froward, peevish, sullen, sour,
Whereto I have invited many a guest,
Shall I be heard?

POLIXENES:
Keeper:
Now is your time: speak loud and kneel before him.
Ah, tutor, look where bloody Clifford comes!
We will have rings and things and fine array;
Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh.

Say you so? then I shall pose you quickly.
And who is England's king but great York's heir?
And his brave son being twain.
Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
AUFIDIUS:
And shortly mean to touch our northern shore:
The noble sister of Publicola,
My lord and you were then at Mantua:--
JULIET:


They are; and Bolingbroke
For my authority bears of a credent bulk,
Why, how now, sons and brother! at a strife?
Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable
PROSPERO:
I' the right and strength o' the commons,' be it either
Say, you chose him
Of burning Rome.
compound with the major part of your syllables: and
Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath
And minister correction to thy fault!
And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,
Stabb'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury?
Your unknown sovereignty!
But as you shake off one to take another;
Father, tear the crown from the usurper's head.
Bury with those that wore them, these base slaves,
LADY ANNE:

QUEEN MARGARET:
The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
It did, it did; alas the day, it did!
BRAKENBURY:
I shall lack voice: the deeds of Coriolanus
I saw his heart in 's face. Give me thy hand:
This is a happier and more comely time
As, though on thinking on no thought I think,

LADY ANNE:

And much I need to help you, if need were;

As thou canst yield a melancholy seat!
Yet, since it is but green, it should be put
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late:
CLIFFORD:
An a' speak any thing against me, I'll take him


LEONTES:
ANGELO:
Belike, some noble gentleman that means,
My gracious sovereign, now in Devonshire,
Good my lord, forbear:
Else might I think that Clarence, Edward's brother,
Richmond is on the seas.
LEONTES:
OXFORD:
But we will drink together; and you shall bear
With fury from his native residence.
Where fearing dying pays death servile breath.
Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son?
From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck.
And you are well met, Signior Hortensio.
For first he was contract to Lady Lucy--

I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
I tell thee, fellow,


Before the time be out? no more!
JOHN OF GAUNT:
I came from Edward as ambassador,
You must report to the Volscian lords, how plainly
Affection is not rated from the heart:
Look on my forces with a gracious eye;
Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.
To satisfy your highness and the entreaties
For still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason
As to put metal in restrained means
BENVOLIO:
An hour since: Cleomenes and Dion,
Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
BALTHASAR:
You may, I may not; you are yet unsworn.
You promised, when you parted with the king,
Open Thy gate of mercy, gracious God!
shall find, within these two days he will be here.

This do and do it kindly, gentle sirs:
More pity that the eagle should be mew'd,
TRANIO:
And formally, according to our law,
CORIOLANUS:


Dares stir a wing, if Warwick shake his bells.
Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword;
'This we received;' and each in either side
Very ready, sir.
And arms her with the boldness of a wife

Of some strange nature, letting it there stand

Who shall reward you better for my life
When with his Amazonian chin he drove
Ah, so much interest have I in thy sorrow
VALERIA:
There shall I rest secure from force and fraud.
No, not so much perdition as an hair
I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house
Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs;
O, then began the tempest to my soul,
Their liberties; make them of no more voice

O God! methinks it were a happy life,
LUCIO:
VOLUMNIA:
JULIET:
Confusion's near; I cannot speak. You, tribunes
No yellow in't, lest she suspect, as he does,


Second Gentleman:
Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too,
RICHMOND:
And fled, as he hears since, to Burgundy.
And now I cloy me with beholding it.
The most replenish'd villain in the world,
JULIET:
Hast thou, spirit,
Second Gentleman:

bestraught: here's--
A mother less? or granted less, Aufidius?
I am inform'd that he comes towards London,

No, no: this shall forbid it: lie thou there.
BAPTISTA:
For I am she, and altogether joyless.
I could myself
Yet show some pity.
nose for thy speeches?
To cross me from the golden time I look for!
Who, not the duke? yes, your beggar of fifty; and

This is good news:
JULIET:
DUCHESS OF YORK:

Well begun, Tranio.
Alas, it hath been great pains to you. They do you

JOHN OF GAUNT:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
from his judge, but most willingly humbles himself
Who knows not that?
LEONTES:
look upon his school-master.
QUEEN MARGARET:

With what encounter so uncurrent I
KING HENRY VI:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
I read that I profess, the Art to Love.
Nothing but jollity. The gods themselves,
MENENIUS:

And, might we lay the old proverb to your charge,
Some trick not worth an egg, shall grow dear friends
And rack thee in their fancies.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

Ay, to be murder'd by his enemies.
Her father keeps from all access of suitors,
I'll see what I can do.

To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.
Tell me some reason why the Lady Grey
PETRUCHIO:
Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth

Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
O sir, I shall be hated to report it!
Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
WARWICK:
Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
for that I insinuate, or toaze from thee thy
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
What may be sworn by, both divine and human,
business is performed, and remain, as he says, your
Peter!
Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief,

JOHN OF GAUNT:
How many years a mortal man may live.
Great cause to give great thanks.
Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man!
And here was left by the sailors. Thou, my slave,


VIRGILIA:
Not she which burns in't. I'll not call you tyrant;
Ay, good my lord, and leave us to our fortune.
But, mighty lord, this merry inclination
What is the business?
'Zounds! who is there?
Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother,
CLAUDIO:
Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee
bones, their bones!
with a whoo-bub against his daughter and the king's


And bestial appetite in change of lust;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
COMINIUS:


Your mother.
And only that I stand for. I appeal
No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins.
I would prolong awhile the traitor's life.
Farewell, old Gaunt: thy sometimes brother's wife
CURTIS:

Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden,

'I would be consul,' says he: 'aged custom,

And given in earnest what I begg'd in jest.
Citizens:
daughter with clipping her; now he thanks the old
them not handsomely.
Inter their bodies as becomes their births:
God bless your grace with health and happy days!
Our soldiers', like the night-owl's lazy flight,
MENENIUS:
'This is put forth too truly:' besides, I have stay'd
Call thither all the officers o' the town,
A woman moved is like a fountain troubled,
And we, in pity of the gentle king,
CLARENCE:
QUEEN MARGARET:
Nurse:
SICINIUS:
uneasy to get the cause of my son's resort thither.
And he that throws not up his cap for joy
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
Nay, come, Kate, come; you must not look so sour.

Both dame and servant; welcomed all, served all;
wakes, fairs and bear-baitings.
Thou wast that did preserve me. Thou didst smile.
How many days will finish up the year;
Second Murderer:

TRANIO:
Who's yonder,
Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since,

I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot on.
For though abundantly they lack discretion,

ROMEO:
I'ld not have show'd it.
A mother only mock'd with two sweet babes;
With bootless labour swim against the tide
Messenger:
The god of soldiers,
Against this cruelty fight on thy side,
But she, your subject, loathes such sovereignty.
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
come something nearer.
always factionary on the party of your general.
You lie.
ANGELO:

Shepherd:
Cousin, farewell: what presence must not know,
Let me but stand; I will not hurt your hearth.
Why, 'tis a cockle or a walnut-shell,

Thou noble thing! more dances my rapt heart
And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
CLIFFORD:
Then call them to our presence; face to face,
QUEEN MARGARET:

And patient fools,

Dost lack any money? I have a little money for thee.
As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
PROSPERO:
Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?
I hate not you for her proud arrogance.
First Senator:

To show the world I am a gentleman.



With what his valour did enrich his wit,


Under your great command. You are to know
For night-owls shriek where mounting larks
SICINIUS:
My lord and husband!
Lend thine ear.
To Richmond, in those parts beyond the sea
Of your own cause. Is this the witness, friar?
forth more islands.
We have a power on foot; and I had purpose
An honourable husband. Come, Camillo,


And these same thoughts people this little world,
I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight.

Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
Master, your love must live a maid at home;

As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
LUCENTIO:

ROMEO:
Yet that, by you deposed, you quake like rebels?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
If heaven will take the present at our hands.
MARCIUS:
Or stones whose rates are either rich or poor

CAPULET:
Nor wittingly have I infringed my vow.
The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek,
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
His vices, you would say; there's no virtue whipped
To say this boy were like me. Come, sir page,
To where you are bound, you must inquire your way,
SICINIUS:
LUCENTIO:
ISABELLA:

With a proud heart he wore his humble weeds.
Cominius, Marcius your old enemy,
A royal battle might be won and lost
And chattering pies in dismal discords sung.

Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
The wrong I did myself; which was so much,
First Servingman:

My wretchedness unto a row of pins,

Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
And spies a far-off shore where he would tread,
QUEEN:

Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
Volsce:
Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?

YORK:
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.

At Antium.
I list not prophecy; but let Time's news
To Edward, but not to the English king.
Monday, my lord,

Now, fair befal thee, good Petruchio!
POLIXENES:
AUTOLYCUS:
Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
Then never man was true.
BENVOLIO:
Hark you. far off!
Mark you that?

DUKE VINCENTIO:
JULIET:

As is a dead man's nose: but I do see't and feel't
She speaks:
He was convey'd by Richard Duke of Gloucester
I have no joy of this contract to-night:
For one poor grain or two!
It is a reeling world, indeed, my lord;
Which not to cut would show thee but a fool,
SLY:
Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance:
'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
Come, make him stand upon this molehill here,
QUEEN MARGARET:
In fair Bohemia, and remember well,

Which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on, my fellows:
Where are the evidence that do accuse me?
And then take hands:
If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse
three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the squier.
Why, very well; I telling you then, if you be
thee, Kate:
Under whose shade the ramping lion slept,

Welcome, Harry: what, will not this castle yield?
PETRUCHIO:



RICHMOND:
I never heard the absent duke much detected for
JULIET:
Be known when 'tis brought forth.
Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
ISABELLA:
With resolution, wheresoe'er I meet thee--

And watch withal; for, but I be deceived,
Unto my mother's prayers I bend my knee.
My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!

Here, sir; as foolish as I was before.
Sir, how comes't that you

Is full of weeds, her fairest flowers choked up,
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:

I am content you shall entreat me stay;

Are mock'd for valiant ignorance,
Besides I say and will in battle prove,
To qualify in others: were he meal'd with that
AUFIDIUS:
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
The shepherd's note since we have left our throne
Environ'd me about, and howled in mine ears
How now? moody?
And will not promise her to any man
The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabour

And this brave fellow too, we are the grains:
It cannot be; for when I parted with him,
which none must know but the king; and which he
Who deserves greatness
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
serving-men in their new fustian, their white
More than I know the sound of Marcius' tongue
And with his varying childness cures in me
KING RICHARD III:
VALERIA:
I say 'silver sound,' because musicians sound for silver.
I would do more than that, if more were needful.
PRINCE EDWARD:
Should now eat up her own!
Thy thoughts with nobleness; that thou mayst prove

LORD WILLOUGHBY:

Pedant:

thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicked varlet! the

As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last,
O' Thursday let it be: o' Thursday, tell her,
And come again to me; who, on my life,
So long as Edward is thy constant friend,
Will vouch the truth of it. Him I accuse
That, were I crown'd the most imperial monarch,
My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
As I guess, Marcius,
CLARENCE:
For fear, I promise you, if I look pale.
For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air?
Why should calamity be full of words?
See you these clothes? say you see them not and

Apollo, pardon



Second Citizen:

And doubt you not, right noble princes both,
PERDITA:
There is no cause: when you shall know your mistress


DORCAS:
Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
And being seated, and domestic broils

Third Citizen:
And all the number of his fair demands
QUEEN MARGARET:
ARIEL:

Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me
Live, and thrive!
With some men else, who think themselves as safe
Hang, cur! hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker!
Away! get you away.
Then be it so; and go we to determine



Well, then, no more but this: go, gentle Catesby,
And what is Edward but ruthless sea?
God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
CORIOLANUS:
Of her awaking, here untimely lay
Good night, good night! parting is such


Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen;
is a year and a quarter old, come Philip and Jacob:
Citizens:
Would Katharina had never seen him though!

Comes to the entertainer--
PETRUCHIO:
Not having that, which, having, makes them short.
Pedant:
Thus will I drown your exclamations.
Third Messenger:
SEBASTIAN:
Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children;

With that she's big with; for 'tis Polixenes
And frame my face to all occasions.
But who comes here?
more. Adieu, trusty Pompey. 'Bless you, friar.

They will bring all; whose spiritual counsel had,
First Murderer:
CAPULET:
And all the household servants fled with him
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
In heaps and piles of ruin.
And brave attendants near him when he wakes,


Now, Kate, I am a husband for your turn;
He wishes earnestly you never may.
And for your grace; and you, my noble lords.
Good morrow to my sovereign king and queen:
You were kneel'd to and importuned otherwise

And for thy maintenance commits his body
But I have cause to pry into this pedant:
What, like a corse?
COMINIUS:
Of what is past.
To greet him and to give him comforts. Sir,
Of your great danger.

If you do free your children from the sword,

And I will do it without fear or doubt,
That dost this habitation, where thou keep'st,
O, you hope the duke will return no more; or you
The petty rebel, dull-brain'd Buckingham,
These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil,
that's in them. Is the senate possessed of this?
Now, in good time, here comes the Duke of York.
For queen, a very caitiff crown'd with care;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Shall touch the people--which time shall not want,
GLOUCESTER:
The pleasant garden of great Italy;
That in a Christian climate souls refined
You are very sensible, and yet you miss my sense:
Near to the king in blood, and near in love
And you shall be conducted.
PROSPERO:
ANTIGONUS:
My will to her consent is but a part;

That turns their countenances.
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,
Were slily crept into his human powers
CORIOLANUS:
What is her burying grave that is her womb,

JULIET:
And never from this palace of dim night

DUKE VINCENTIO:
ELBOW:
GRUMIO:
Whoop'd out of Rome. Now this extremity
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
GLOUCESTER:


What, are you married?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Alas poor York! but that I hate thee deadly,
ANTIGONUS:
think me still no gentleman born: you were best say
business, and I will merrily accompany you home.
By calmness or by absence: all's in anger.
Whoever gave that counsel, to give forth

Second Murderer:
Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
in the next room.
I can hook to me: say that she were gone,
Not weighing well the end; if ever fearful
O, 'twas the foulest deed to slay that babe,
ABHORSON:
Though Marcius earned them not, and all his faults
With rigorous hands: he hath resisted law,
Fie, fie! no thought of him:
Seize on him, Furies, take him to your torments!'
First Citizen:
And five years since there was some speech of marriage
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
WARWICK:
neither to his father nor to me, to go about to make
What, in my sight? Bianca, get thee in.
There's some ill planet reigns:
If judgement lie in them, then so do we,
Where, he shall see, the boar will use us kindly.
Long live Gonzalo!
PRINCE:
ESCALUS:
With bloody passage led your wars even to
That e'er I sigh'd for: pity move my father

Lonely, apart. But here it is: prepare
O, they did urge it still unto the king!
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts;

me like men:
For what is in this world but grief and woe?

Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
LEONTES:

Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
Than an unstringed viol or a harp,
And are upon the Mediterranean flote,
Because he would avoid such bitter taunts

So many weeks ere the poor fools will ean:

Not so well apparell'd
My business, sir, is to the king.

Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
SLY:
Then were they chosen: in a better hour,
LADY ANNE:
Then meet and join. Jove's lightnings, the precursors

I confess two sleeves.
GRUMIO:
That mought not be distinguished; but at last

To give your censures in this weighty business?
But let him say so then, and let him go;
ESCALUS:
The bound of honour, or in act or will
Is not this suit of mine, that thou declare
It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from
Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
LUCIO:
With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
As Hercules
Why then should I be consul? By yond clouds,
BARNARDINE:

HERMIONE:
Yes, faith, and all his lords; the Duke of Milan
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
Nurse:
For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell,
What, do you grumble? I'll be with you straight.
Which yet seem shut, we, have but pinn'd with rushes;

Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
And the queen's sons and brothers haught and proud:
Women will love her, that she is a woman

Left her in her tears, and dried not one of them
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
In all these circumstances I'll instruct you:
prophecy, hark you: I advise you, let me not find
Poor breathing orators of miseries!
That his contempt shall not be bruising to you,

And beat our watch, and rob our passengers;
HERMIONE:
Enforced thee! art thou king, and wilt be forced?
And in that shame still live my sorrow's rage.
Shepherd:
I'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within.
Inherit at my house; hear all, all see,
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,
BUCKINGHAM:
But I bethink me what a weary way
He chides to hell and bids the other grow
BRAKENBURY:
As to be cast forth in the common air,
We had the tune on't a month ago.
KATHARINA:
That if our queen and this young prince agree,
Let's hence, and hear
Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
Nor I.
I was, my lord.
Citizens:
Once more to look on him.
MONTAGUE:
This is the day that, in King Edward's time,
hanging: make the rope of his destiny our cable,

Thou art thence banish'd, we would muster all
CLARENCE:

Therefore I will not disdain.
The queen is coming with a puissant host;
To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words;
Till it o'er-run the stew; laws for all faults,
thing about him. Good, then; if his face be the
BRAKENBURY:
In resolution as I swore before.
And for your brother, he was lately sent
Go with me to the vault.

And soon lie Richard in an earthly pit!
Why, be so still; here's nobody will steal that from
Thine being but a moiety of my grief,
Withdraw yourselves, and leave us here alone.
Are idly bent on him that enters next,
Nurse:
GLOUCESTER:
but with all duteous love
PAULINA:

First Citizen:
How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands
Nurse:
Whether for east or west: the dearth is great;
Your love deserves my thanks; but my desert
Well, my lord,
Commit them to the fire!
Till Katharina the curst have got a husband.

Without assistance.
Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
So shall you bind me to your highness' service.
For in this sin he is as deep as I.
Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath
O, sir, Lucentio slipp'd me like his greyhound,
BAPTISTA:
Men well inclined to hear what thou command'st:
Why, that is nothing: for I tell you, father,
And makes himself an artificial night:
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,


Remember since you owed no more to time

How that the guilty kindred of the queen
KING LEWIS XI:
This virtue and this moral discipline,
And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance.
O God, I have an ill-divining soul!

RIVERS:
ANTONIO:
And therein negligent; or else a fool
The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colours
Urge it no more; lest that, instead of words,
but that a wise burgher put in for them.
Mayor:
we cannot with such magnificence--in so rare--I know
A French crown more.
It must needs be of subtle, tender and delicate
Of its own kind, all foison, all abundance,
KING RICHARD II:
The army of the queen hath got the field:
To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,

CAMILLO:
Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew

And that you look'd for him this day in Padua.
We need not put new matter to his charge:
You have drawn oaths from him not to stay. You, sir,
Where is the duke my father with his power?
And so once more return and tell his grace.

May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world!
ISABELLA:
Even in the lusty havior of his son.
First Citizen:
ROMEO:
DUKE OF YORK:
The vantage of his anger.

'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return.
The time is worth the use on't.
As thus, to drop them still upon one place,
PRINCE EDWARD:
That power I have, discharge; and let them go
By so receiving a dishonour'd life
SICINIUS:
Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:
Richard except, those whom we fight against
The badges of his grief and patience,
It shall be moon, or star, or what I list,
KING RICHARD III:
And every thing is left at six and seven.
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven?
Were to us all, that do't and suffer it,

Or shall they last, and we rejoice in them?


BIONDELLO:
BENVOLIO:
So out of circumstance and sudden, tells us
To try if thou be current gold indeed
Now, mistress, profit you in what you read?
FROTH:
'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,


I dare your quenchless fury to more rage:
Than my poor life must answer.

CORIOLANUS:
To reconcile me to his friendly peace:
VOLUMNIA:
Can thereto frame his spirit.
That would depopulate the city and
To wife for Edward: if this news be true,
Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
CORIOLANUS:
All circumstances well considered.
And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
Second Servingman:
GLOUCESTER:
Your care is gain of care, by new care won:
O'erborne their way, consumed with fire, and took


And to my humble seat conform myself.
The covering sky is nothing; Bohemia nothing;
Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.
ISABELLA:
clients: though you change your place, you need not
Chaplain, away! thy priesthood saves thy life.
Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand
Now, Clifford, I have singled thee alone:
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
Here comes my son Aumerle.
What! lack I credit?

ISABELLA:
My gracious lord, here in the parliament
Then bid me kill myself, and I will do it.



Provost:
By drunken prophecies, libels and dreams,
stolen out of other affairs; but I will attend you awhile.
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
desire to lay my bones there. Besides, the penitent
Were red-hot steel, to sear me to the brain!
HASTINGS:



As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
Within your house, to make mine eye the witness
My dainty duck, my dear-a?

POLIXENES:
A murrain on't! I took this for silver.
officious; for I am proof against that title and
to dinner, thither.

Antony, and Potpan!
And make a dearth in this revolting land.
To the freshest things now reigning and make stale
Murder thy breath in the middle of a word,
Your honour not o'erthrown by your desires,

But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear

You are a Roman, are you?
Owe and succeed thy weakness.
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
That she shall still be curst in company.
PROSPERO:
Though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked

I think you have
Nor did you think it folly
What's that, I pray?
HENRY PERCY:

No, coz, I rather weep.
O, your desert speaks loud; and I should wrong it,
I think thou dost; and, indeed, with most painful
Why art thou patient, man? thou shouldst be mad;
BISHOP OF CARLISLE:
He wants advice.
To the palace, an it like your worship.
Last longer telling than thy kindness' date.

Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
And say 'What is't your honour will command,
I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
To help our fielded friends! Come, blow thy blast.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut

Is set afire by thine own ignorance,

This night you shall behold him at our feast;
great traveller, and wild Half-can that stabbed
She was too good for me: but, as I said,
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
come to pass, say Pompey told you so.

LUCIO:
Her dowery wealthy, and of worthy birth;
Upon my faith and honour.
KING HENRY VI:
For how can tyrants safely govern home,



Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
LUCIO:
TRANIO:
And three examples of the like have been
And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,

I came into the world with my legs forward:
Loved none in the world so well as Lucentio.
With hearts more proof than shields. Advance,
KING RICHARD II:
In choosing for yourself, you show'd your judgment,
O, father, you'll know more of that hereafter.
eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher
To put on better ere he go to church.
Well, say. Peace, ho!
PETRUCHIO:

Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
Why, and I trust I may go too, may I not? What,
And in the breath of bitter words let's smother
never a worthier man.


Thy brother being carelessly encamp'd,
I mean, sir, in delay
To know our further pleasure in this case,
Of that unsatiate Edward, noble York
Make me to think so twenty years together!
To raise my state to title of a queen,
He cried to me; I saw him prisoner;
You adopt your policy, how is it less or worse,

POMPEY:
And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful!

art full of error; I am sound.

It would control my dam's god, Setebos,

YORK:
MENENIUS:
Pay with falsehood false exacting,
No, nor a man that fears you less than he,

BRUTUS:
Think me for the man I am, necessity
Say, I command her to come to me.

SEBASTIAN:
Become them with one half so good a grace
ROMEO:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
PETER:
Let them puff all about mine ears, present me
Go, get thee hence, for I will not away.
First Murderer:
of what's past, present, or to come; insensible of
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Let's before as he bids us: he was provided to do us good.
CLARENCE:
SEBASTIAN:
cannot be spoken of. There might you have beheld one
And not impute this yielding to light love,
BAPTISTA:
By your own true affections, and that your minds,
MENENIUS:
Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin
For dainties are all Kates, and therefore, Kate,
Darest with thy frozen admonition


Why, then we shall have a stirring world again.
MAMILLIUS:
KING HENRY VI:
Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.
the carpets laid, and every thing in order?
Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards
KATHARINA:
That carries no impression like the dam.
DUKE VINCENTIO:

KATHARINA:
Is the chair empty? is the sword unsway'd?

end of the ship, to see how the sea flap-dragoned
Than that of common sons.
LADY CAPULET:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And for his meed, poor lord, he is mew'd up.
Most lamentable day, most woful day,
How fares the prince?
I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
FROTH:
ANGELO:
He still hath held them; that to's power he would
I show it most of all when I show justice;
A noble life before a long, and wish
He cannot but with measure fit the honours
Cannot conclude but by the yea and no
I told you what would come of this: beseech you,

It is my soul that calls upon my name:
For me, I'll not be gone till I please myself:
'Hic ibat,' as I told you before, 'Simois,' I am
LEONTES:
Sweet sir, much better than I was; I can stand and
Come, sirs, convey me to the block of shame;
The old priest of Saint Luke's church is at your
It is too little, helping him to all;
Few words suffice; and therefore, if thou know
As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard.
QUEEN MARGARET:
Besides, old Gremio is hearkening still;
Over the glittering helmet of my foe!

Pisa renown'd for grave citizens
May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute
JULIET:
Now, where's my wife?
Is all unknown to me, my gracious lady.
But kill'd itself much sooner.
Petruchio, go thy ways; the field is won.

Why dost thou spit at me?

Joint by joint, but we will know his purpose.
AUTOLYCUS:
Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight:
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
A partial slander sought I to avoid,
Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules;
And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

TRANIO:
Here's such ado to make no stain a stain
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
And, as my fortune ripens with thy love,
Your sad tires in a mile-a.
I bless the time
DUCHESS OF YORK:
If never, yet that Time himself doth say
Prefix'd by Angelo: see this be done,
And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.


CLARENCE:
Where is the provost?

Should show so heinous, black, obscene a deed!
Shall I be tempted to infringe my vow
Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
Once in a month recount what thou hast been,
I think you are happy in this second match,
On his shoulder, and his; her face o' fire

KING HENRY VI:
continue in his courses till thou knowest what they

and many other evidences proclaim her with all
That made great Jove to humble him to her hand.
KING RICHARD III:
CLAUDIO:
Thou kill'st me in his life; giving him breath,
It is true.
And how my men will stay themselves from laughter

What, will my daughter prove a good musician?
Than ever frown in Greece. By Jove himself!
And these, who often drown'd could never die,
When she does praise me grieves me. I have done
As well appeareth by the cause you come;
When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?
YORK:
To whom in all this presence speaks your grace?
Some comet or unusual prodigy?
As deep as that, though true.
of the morning: what I think I utter, and spend my
Justice design the victor's chivalry.
Which modern lamentations might have moved?
Behind the globe, that lights the lower world,


A blessed labour, my most sovereign liege:
Tell them, when that my mother went with child
Lady:
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
Well seen in music, to instruct Bianca;
'Twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen,
And princess no worse issued.
Why, masters, my good friends, mine honest neighbours,
KING EDWARD IV:
Yea, look'st thou pale? let me see the writing.
Betid to any creature in the vessel
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Found that the issue was not his begot;

Thy head, all indirectly, gave direction:
And give them leave to fly that will not stay;
And every tale condemns me for a villain.
How sometimes nature will betray its folly,
Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour
it. Nay, friar, I am a kind of burr; I shall stick.
No, I'll not go: you hear what he hath said
Nurse:
I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when
We did observe. Cousin Aumerle,
Until my mis-shaped trunk that bears this head
Kind sister, thanks: we'll enter all together.
As I weigh grief, which I would spare: for honour,

Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,


Lord mayor,--
A noble wish.

Her silence flouts me, and I'll be revenged.
Strike, drum.
The vaporous night approaches.
Supply me with the habit and instruct me

O God's lady dear!
Take all the swift advantage of the hours;
COMINIUS:
Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!

For from my heart thine image ne'er shall go;
Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his
The phrase is to the matter.

Both Tribunes:
A man at least, for less I should not be;
TYBALT:
For I myself have many tears to wash
But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not.
LEONTES:
GLOUCESTER:
DERBY:
And thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men!
FRIAR LAURENCE:
her;' and where some stretch-mouthed rascal would,

And yet the king not privy to my drift,
Full fathom five thy father lies;

the dearer by I know how much an ounce.
pity: yet I'll tarry till my son come; he hallooed
Yet in this one thing let me blame your grace,
In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth,
This boy, that cannot tell what he would have
PETRUCHIO:

Bid her devise
For once allow'd the skilful pilot's charge?
Women are made to bear, and so are you.
He loved his mother dearly.
But presently prevent the ways to wail.
No more of him; he is a worthy man: make way, they
Even to my person, than I thought he would
In the delaying death.
But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
BIANCA:
may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal to
To be or none or little; though a devil
Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.
ESCALUS:
PRINCE EDWARD:
Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;
I will be squared by this. I do believe

AUFIDIUS:
These babes for Clarence weep and so do I;
Would all were well! but that will never be
And in this state she gallops night by night
CATESBY:
Tell him, my mourning weeds are laid aside,
chains: no hearing, no feeling, but my sir's song,
Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
PARIS:
Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word:
Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
are old men: tell me one thing that I shall ask you.

About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca:
PETRUCHIO:
Her husband, knave: wouldst thou betray me?


PETRUCHIO:
Was innocence for innocence; we knew not
GREY:
I'll mend it with a largess. Take your paper too,
What, art thou afraid?
Examine other beauties.
Say that the king, which may command, entreats.
KING RICHARD III:
But by the robbing of the banish'd duke.
I departed not and left him there.


With smiling plenty and fair prosperous days!
BUCKINGHAM:
Set it down. Is ink and paper ready?

For this world frowns, and Edward's sun is clouded.
In storm perpetual, could not move the gods
Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;
I have left asleep; and for the rest o' the fleet
I say, bid come before us Angelo.

have relished among my other discredits.
I do; and surely
Whose double bosoms seem to wear one heart,
ROMEO:
At any time have recourse unto the princes.
The contents of this is the return of the duke: you
As you had slept between: Leontes leaving,
Slew three opposers: Tarquin's self he met,

To quicken your increase, I will beget
ROMEO:
Before you find it other. All the regions
O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow

tongues into those wounds and speak for them; so, if
Boatswain:
Which you have not redeem'd; indeed, paid down
If case some one of you would fly from us,
Second Messenger:
ROMEO:
Well get you gone: o' Thursday be it, then.
BUCKINGHAM:
KING HENRY VI:
Which, by the sign thereof was termed so.
it is well allied: but it is impossible to extirp
In acclamations hyperbolical;

No, I'll nor sell nor give him: lend you him I will
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
Here's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash,
I find my zenith doth depend upon
Messenger:
What is thy sentence then but speechless death,
Ah, hark! the fatal followers do pursue;
Fly to the duke:
LADY ANNE:
Small joy have I in being England's queen.
MARIANA:
Clarence, excuse me to the king my brother;
That I have had of thee!
ROMEO:
Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love
CAMILLO:
ANGELO:
speech we had to such a purpose.
Shepherd:
Amongst your cloven army.
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,
King Henry, be thy title right or wrong,
Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir,
Hoisted sail and made away for Brittany.
I will be satisfied; let me see the writing.
What then!
Nurse:
FLORIZEL:
Sir John and Sir Hugh Mortimer, mine uncles,
Name it, fair cousin.

KING RICHARD III:
Whether to knock against the gates of Rome,
In earth as quiet as thy father's skull:
Can this be so? did Angelo so leave her?
Thou to me thy secrets tell.
To have't with saying 'Good morrow.'
Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
CLEOMENES:
By living low, where fortune cannot hurt me,
Which renders good for bad, blessings for curses.
I conjure only but to raise up him.

ISABELLA:

Your grace, we think, should soonest know his mind.
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,

To sit about the coronation.
'Twas I won the wager, though you hit the white;

Alas, poor Clarence! is it for a wife
'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired;
ISABELLA:


The fear of that withholds my present aid.
PERDITA:
MENENIUS:
shepherd; from whose simplicity I think it not
None rare, my lord.
O lamentable day!
no harm, good man;' puts him off, slights him, with
Third Watchman:
For well I wot that Henry is no soldier.
And he shall pardon thee these outrages.
give him gold; and though authority be a stubborn
Second Servant:
WARWICK:
For they account his head upon the bridge.

Gentleman:
WARWICK:

That's true enough;

NORTHUMBERLAND:
To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind
Why, no.


For I have ever verified my friends,
Gloucester,
I cannot name the disease; and it is caught
PETER:


And little Ned Plantagenet, his son?
But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
His body to that pleasant country's earth,
Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box,
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
Alas, poor soul!
My lord, I warrant you we will play our part,

Enough, with over-measure.
O son! the night before thy wedding-day
But with such words that are but rooted in
And this soft courage makes your followers faint.
Go thou away:
I know not what; but format in apparel,

You do him injury to scorn his corse.
HASTINGS:
Every good hap to you that chances here:
You have made fair work, I fear me.--Pray, your news?--

I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face.

Half an hour since brought my report.
victory in his pocket? the wounds become him.
Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
KING RICHARD II:

these two moles, these blind ones, aboard him: if he
And I am come to seek that name in England;
And make thy weapon drop.
From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate
In that thou seest thy wretched brother die,
BUCKINGHAM:
We'll keep him here: then what is that to him?
please his mother and to be partly proud; which he
Third Servingman:
PROSPERO:
Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,

KING RICHARD II:
BENVOLIO:
ISABELLA:
KING EDWARD IV:
I have no tongue but one: gentle my lord,

As I had title in thy noble husband!
And where the worser is predominant,
Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.

Out, alas!
DUKE VINCENTIO:

If presently you will take horse with him,
MENENIUS:
wager, first begins to crow?
And speaking it, he wistly look'd on me,

Calls not your counsels, but our natural goodness
Clown:
That honourable day shall ne'er be seen.
GREGORY:

That have been so bedazzled with the sun


Not I, my lord.
Procure your sureties for your days of answer.
Well, I'll hear it, sir: yet you must not think to
COMINIUS:
We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again;



And you shall pay well for 'em.
You are looked for and called for, asked for and
YORK:
Must by the roots be hewn up yet ere night.
O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
Me shall you find ready and willing
From cold and empty veins, where no blood dwells;

Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
Yet, if my lord will marry,--if you will, sir,
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,

Nay. but his taunts.
These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.
My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,

Write sorrow on the bosom of the earth,
BRUTUS:
WARWICK:
The king's grown bankrupt, like a broken man.
yet: suffer us to famish, and their store-houses

Whiles he was hastening, in the chase, it seems,
Where is he, hear you?
The son of Clarence have I pent up close;
villanous speeches of the duke.

Third Servant:
And, now I fall, thy tough commixture melts.
First Soldier:
Day, yield me not thy light; nor, night, thy rest!
Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight
I'll not be by the while: my liege, farewell:
More noble blows than ever thou wise words;
Our most disloyal lady, for, as she hath
To vice you to't, that you have touch'd his queen
But when he frown'd, it was against the French
SICINIUS:
For this new-married man approaching here,
Either withdraw unto some private place,
This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.

A rotten carcass of a boat, not rigg'd,
Splitting the air with noise.

Would without lapsing suffer: nay, sometimes,


For them to play at will. How came the posterns
As any cordial comfort. Still, methinks,


That come before the swallow dares, and take
Commend me to Lord William: tell him, Catesby,
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
The grave of your deserving; Rome must know
BENVOLIO:
Get you hence, for I must go
And that, by great injunctions, I am bound
AUFIDIUS:
He that bereft thee, lady, of thy husband,

BUCKINGHAM:

All things is ready. How near is our master?
corrupt her; only he hath made an essay of her
That it becomes a virtue.
Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
Unto these sorrows.
POMPEY:
Joy to you, Mariana! Love her, Angelo:
The sweet which is their poison: your dishonour
That with your strange encounter much amazed me,
peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of
hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is

Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
That any harm should stain so fair a show!
And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity?
But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
And be it moon, or sun, or what you please:

PETRUCHIO:
And when this arm of mine hath chastised

Or as the south to the septentrion.


And all eyes else dead coals! Fear thou no wife;
The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.

To-morrow, in mine opinion, is too sudden;
And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it

As living here and you no use of him.
To see my friends in Padua, but of all
Swarming with caterpillars?

Some report a sea-maid spawned him; some, that he
Provost:

Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
He should have leave to go away betimes,

And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war,
Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths;
Rain'd from the wounds of slaughter'd Englishmen:
stuck in ears: you might have pinched a placket, it
To make confession and to be absolved.
This isle with Calibans.
Let him depart before we need his help.
RIVERS:
motion generative; that's infallible.
Brief abstract and record of tedious days,
rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of


BRUTUS:
Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts!
I have.
Sirrah, no more!
Sham it be put to that?
I thank you, gentle uncle. O, my lord,
Why then, the beef, and let the mustard rest.
His burthenous taxations notwithstanding,
WARWICK:
Some haunted by the ghosts they have deposed;
And, gladly quaked, hear more; where the
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,
Why, Clarence, to myself.
Which way thou travellest: if along with us,

To scorn at our solemnity this night.
I know so. But, gentle Lady Anne,
What black magician conjures up this fiend,

He'll beat Aufidius 'head below his knee
Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
VOLUMNIA:

MERCUTIO:
MENENIUS:
temperance.
He had rather see the swords, and hear a drum, than
The word is 'mildly.' Pray you, let us go:


Why, that's my bawcock. What, hast

3 KING HENRY VI


Confess yourselves wondrous malicious,


CLEOMENES:
Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well.
Boatswain:
That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
My holy sir, none better knows than you
Thus strangers may be hailed and abused: O
So please you, sir, their speed
Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.
I'll to the friar, to know his remedy:
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
PETRUCHIO:
No man but prophesied revenge for it.
You have, I know, petition'd all the gods
O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
The visitor will not give him o'er so.
And fright our native peace with self-born arms.


Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may:

Because his fathers are more beautiful?
To hear the lamentations of Poor Anne,
GLOUCESTER:
Is prisoner to the foe; his state usurp'd,
Let them want nothing that my house affords.
GLOUCESTER:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
EDWARD:
Marcius, his name?
TRANIO:

What's yet behind, that's meet you all should know.
Barkloughly castle call they this at hand?
When scarce the blood was well wash'd from his hands
Do give a life: no shepherdess, but Flora
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
YORK:
And not be tied unto his brother's will.
There lie, and there thy character: there these;
Order the trial, marshal, and begin.
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands
NORFOLK:
Come, boy; I am past moe children, but thy sons and

O, she that might have intercepted thee,
Withdraw thee, wretched Margaret: who comes here?
I carried from thee, dear; and my true lip

your whores, sir, being members of my occupation,
SICINIUS:
My noble queen, let former grudges pass,
Second Citizen:
Nurse:
But new struck nine.
That murder'd my love's cousin, with which grief,
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee

But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
MARCIUS:
The surge most swoln that met him; his bold head
CATESBY:
STANLEY:


QUEEN:
Now Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,

Have I enjoy'd the golden dew of sleep,
To see her women? any of them? Emilia?

Nay, but hear me.
STANLEY:
I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
Have you so soon forgot the entertainment
TYBALT:
That sees into the bottom of my grief?

HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
but I shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall
Up to some scaffold, there to lose their heads?

Therefore I came unto your majesty.

Which to deny concerns more than avails; for as
He smiled and said 'The better for our purpose.'

Which this man's life did owe you, you'll rejoice

Here is Lord Angelo shall give you justice:
In the Duke of Gloucester's purse.

Edward for Edward pays a dying debt.
What's here? one dead, or drunk? See, doth he breathe?
That thou attend me: thou dost here usurp
Above the morning lark or wilt thou hunt?
I take my leave of you.
And that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee,

Even to the court, the heart, to the seat o' the brain;
AUTOLYCUS:
ROMEO:
And you were sworn true subjects unto me:
Though banish'd, yet a trueborn Englishman.
Go take her hence, and marry her instantly.
This music crept by me upon the waters,


And shall the figure of God's majesty,
Than such as most seem yours: I say, I come


HASTINGS:
Cursed the blood that let this blood from hence!
SICINIUS:
Richard cried 'Charge! and give no foot of ground!'


I could do this, and that with no rash potion,
A virtuous and a Christian-like conclusion,
Than to accomplish twenty golden crowns!
Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip,

MENENIUS:
Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs
thief thinks it little enough: so every true man's

I prize above my dukedom.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,

VINCENTIO:
The duke's in us; and we will hear you speak:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
son,

The worst is this, that, at so slender warning,
Villain, I say, knock me here soundly.
Been publicly accused, so shall she have
Charge him too coldly. Tell him, you are sure
My name is Caius Marcius, who hath done
And he that slew them fouler than he is:
Associated with Aufidius, rages
Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!
We cannot without circumstance descry.
In those foundations which I build upon,
You see how he intends to use the people.
That high All-Seer that I dallied with
Ratcliff, thyself, or Catesby; where is he?
Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not
I seem'd his follower, not partner, and
How accompanied?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Sweet prince, the untainted virtue of your years
As like Hermione as is her picture,
You would have thought the very windows spake,
AUTOLYCUS:
We'll thwack him hence with distaffs.
they say one would speak to her and stand in hope of

That frowns on me looks sadly upon him.
Hooking both right and wrong to the appetite,
Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio,
I' the part that is at mercy? Five times, Marcius,
Than that which lives to fear: make it your comfort,
Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;
So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf;

Very well.
My Lord of Somerset, at my request,

Tell him, myself, the mayor and citizens,
The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
Cousin of Exeter, frowns, words and threats
I hope so, sir; for I have about me many parcels of charge.
And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
Virtue and that part of philosophy
Here, sir: I'ld have beaten him like a dog, but for
MARIANA:
'Lo, thus' quoth Dighton, 'lay those tender babes:'

To shun the danger that his soul divines.
GRUMIO:
what shame else belongs to't. To him will I present
Thy father was a traitor to the crown.
And your fair princess,--goddess!--O, alas!
Sir, induced by my charity, and hearing how hastily
you;--and thus much for greeting. Now, my spruce
that we may yet again have access to our fair

So and no other, as yourself commanded:
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
PETRUCHIO:
LUCENTIO:
LADY CAPULET:
His tongue is now a stringless instrument;
O, yes, it doth; a thousand-fold it doth.
Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior,--
Which now's upon's; without the which this story
My words disbench'd you not.
Under this thick-grown brake we'll shroud ourselves;
Would you not deem it breathed? and that those veins
MENENIUS:

Thou'ldst not believe thy deeds: but I'll report it
A bloody deed, and desperately dispatch'd!
For I come hither arm'd against myself:

Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
Culling of simples; meagre were his looks,
When they are bound to serve, love and obey.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Farewell: our countrymen are gone and fled,
A fearful army, led by Caius Marcius


He doth appear.
Till holy church incorporate two in one.


CAPULET:
KING RICHARD III:
friend of mine.
Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator,
May hang upon your hardness: therefore hear us.
I say it is the moon.

without it.
Bear the boy hence; he shall not come about her;
I have a thousand spirits in one breast,
YORK:
all the rest from their functions: they put forth
You're a made old man: if the sins of your youth
And I am ready to put armour on.
My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
Whither?
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
When he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodies
Have I thought long to see this morning's face,

Come, poor babe:
Is Edward your true king? for I were loath
Harry, how fares your uncle?
BRUTUS:
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven;
Commune with you of this, but rather follow
I thank thee, master.

difference betwixt our Bohemia and your Sicilia.
Take this of me, Kate of my consolation;
warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?
Our very priests must become mockers, if they shall
O sweet Paulina,

It doth remember me the more of sorrow;
I have great hope in that; for in her youth
How long is't now since last yourself and I


than the stripes I have received, which are mighty
If I had thought the sight of my poor image
He is their god: he leads them like a thing
GLOUCESTER:

And I believe twill never stand upright
As to set dogs on sheep--will be his fire
And that may be determined at the one
The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
And not against his friends; his noble hand
Here: what's the matter?
O yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face,
DERBY:
Nor showing, as the manner is, his wounds

And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:
'Tis very late, she'll not come down to-night:
Servant:
And not my brother.
Does change my disposition.
What figure of us think you he will bear?
And put your trial in the villain's mouth
Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!

KING RICHARD II:
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
A thirsty evil; and when we drink we die.
That God, the law, my honour and her love,

Was stabb'd with bloody daggers: God, I pray him,
I'll have no bigger: this doth fit the time,

gently considered, I'll bring you where he is
Go; away with her to prison!
Thou art not here: murder is thy alms-deed;
FLORIZEL:
What must I say?
CORIOLANUS:
Set down by the poll?
JULIET:
Presuming on an ague's privilege,
ISABELLA:
BARNARDINE:
with life that I will sue to be rid of it.

Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance:


And, lozel, thou art worthy to be hang'd,

have not deserved nobly.
His son is thirty.
Worse than tears drown: beseech you all, my lords,

And he, that suffer's. O, it is excellent
And choke your good to come; for his possessions,
walk: I will even take my leave of you, and pace
MENENIUS:

bawdry, which is strange; with such delicate
Even of your mettle, of your very blood;
For the red blood reigns in the winter's pale.
BRUTUS:
The fixture of her eye has motion in't,
Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth!
Which by his death hath lost much majesty.
Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child;
Is dangerous treason: he is come to open

EDWARD:
MENENIUS:
business, I am therefore no courtier? I am courtier
LUCIO:
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,
Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow.
man, I think, that shall set them in present action.
Drawn tuns of blood out of thy country's breast,
What is he, Biondello?
Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!

Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair
AUTOLYCUS:
Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss

Welcome, good Cambio.
RIVERS:
thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she
Like powder in a skitless soldier's flask,
Because we thought ourself thy lawful king:
near-legged before and with, a half-chequed bit

LEONTES:
More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,

pawn till it be brought you.
A word of this. What, ho! within! come forth!

And, I beseech you, hear me, who profess
O, he hath kept an evil diet long,
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to
To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow:
His wonted sleep under a fresh tree's shade,
With all the rest of that consorted crew,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
In puny battle slay me.
POMPEY:
And come now to create you Duke of York.
Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
MENENIUS:
England, bound in with the triumphant sea
and seen the spider.
And, by the glorious worth of my descent,
Whose repetition will be dogg'd with curses;
But seek revenge on Edward's mockery.
O gentle villain, do not turn away!
CAMILLO:
'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow
Yet I can make my audit up, that all
PAULINA:
The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet:
Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen
I'll give no blemish to her honour, none.
Say, Henry, shall I have my right, or no?
To-morrow will I send.

God will revenge it; whom I will importune
My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
CLARENCE:

To take the urgent hour. Come, sir, away.
Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin.
Of what you promised me.

You have, my lord: would it might please your grace,
Becomes your enemy, for mocking him
With his unkindness? say't be so?
CORIOLANUS:

Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him,
If this might be a brother.
Nothing that I respect, my gracious lord.
Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.
First Murderer:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
But I say there is no hope in't: our throats are

Fetch in our wood and serves in offices
Valance of Venice gold in needlework,
I may, and will, if she be so contented:
MENENIUS:

Take honour from me, and my life is done:
Especially in pride.

But sup them well and look unto them all:
Son:
No more infected with my country's love
For well we know, no hand of blood and bone
Come, go along, and see the truth hereof;
Whilst that my wretchedness doth bait myself,
To offer service to the Duke of Hereford,
Being in night, all this is but a dream,
Which I'll lay down.
That horse that I so carefully have dress'd!
I will revenge his wrong to Lady Bona,
CLAUDIO:


Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts
Inferring arguments of mighty force.

Come, come, dispatch; 'tis bootless to exclaim.
whose hand, she being now at hand, thou shalt soon
For hand to hand he would have vanquish'd thee.
And therefore law shall scorn him further trial
And sent to warn them to his royal presence.

What, will he come?
You were not bid to speak.
Grandam, his nurse.
I mentioned a son o' the king's, which Florizel
Happily met, my lady and my wife!

BUCKINGHAM:
MARIANA:
When thou mayst tell thy tale a nearer way?
POLIXENES:
Each in his office ready at thy beck.

CAPULET:
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
QUEEN MARGARET:
creature in resemblance of the mother, the affection
ROMEO:
Who is it that hath died for this offence?
peach-coloured satin, which now peaches him a

Second Servingman:

'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
To give you over at this first encounter,
He would not seem to know me.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
He did, my gracious lord, begin that place;
That life is better life, past fearing death,
So, here comes a brace.
MONTAGUE:
I am a gentleman of Verona, sir,
Well-minded Clarence, be thou fortunate!
Nay, that you shall not: since you have begun,
to lie as to live chastely. Therefore, go back.
Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste.

Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood
Let the first budger die the other's slave,

Sir, I shall not be slack: in sign whereof,
It is in mine authority to command

JULIET:
I know you can do very little alone; for your helps
And give them friendly welcome every one:
MERCUTIO:
It grieves me for the death of Claudio;
For nothing but his majesty's approach.
And when in music we have spent an hour,
TRANIO:
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
And bring away the armour that is there.
Edward, kneel down.
PETRUCHIO:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
To gaze upon the secrets of the deep?
shall do it.
Then reason safely with you. Therefore, be it known,
Post:
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
Of ten times double gain of happiness.
Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,
the inside of your purse to the outside of his hand,

Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
CLIFFORD:
You know to-morrow is the wedding-day.
True! pow, wow.

KATHARINA:
Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; I saw't.
Mistake me not--to save my life, for if
First, heaven be the record to my speech!
I pray thee, pretty York, who told thee this?
Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!
Only for propagation of a dower
Appear'd to me last night, for ne'er was dream
Believe't not lightly--though I go alone,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
KING RICHARD III:

Doth more solicit me than your exclaims,
He hath promised you more than that, or there be liars.
O brave young prince! thy famous grandfather
Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st
I minded him how royal 'twas to pardon


Cherish rebellion and are rebels all.
Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,
Not as protector, steward, substitute,
Go to, we pardon thee: therefore, in brief,
GLOUCESTER:

GRUMIO:
To save at least the heir of Edward's right:
'Tis, marvel, but that you are but newly come,
Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows:
And Somerset, with Oxford fled to her:
Past the mid season.
'Twere well


What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,

Inferreth arguments of mighty strength,

NORFOLK:
Nor do I think the man of safe discretion
In self-same manner doth accuse my husband,
And make us wade even in our kindred's blood,

With all good speed at Plashy visit me.

My life thou shalt command, but not my shame:
I will be married to a wealthy widow,
Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs;
That one short minute gives me in her sight:
If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
myself, fellow Curtis.
Than in possession and jot of pleasure.
Attend the sequel of your imposition,
Corioli like a planet: now all's his:
Against the envy of less happier lands,
Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste,
Should so with civil and uncivil arms
KING LEWIS XI:
What, sovereign sir,
YORK:
What, all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes
And undertake the teaching of the maid:
Exton, I thank thee not; for thou hast wrought
CLARENCE:
Where is he?
First Servant:
You do but lose your labour.
Thou slander of thy mother's heavy womb!
More than with parting from my lord the king.
spavins, rayed with yellows, past cure of the fives,
Marcius!
GLOUCESTER:
My Lord of Warwick, hear me but one word:
That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
To do this deed will hate you for the deed.
And in conclusion she shall watch all night:
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
Hath from the number of his banish'd years
To help King Edward in his time of storm,

I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo,
And woo her with some spirit when she comes.
Sir, that's to-morrow.
CORIOLANUS:
Mayor:
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
Hath broke his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
Now in good time, here comes the duke himself.
LADY GREY:
And what is left, to lose it by his country,
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:
That Julius Caesar was a famous man;
LORD ROSS:
if the bear be gone from the gentleman and how much

Hath he set bounds betwixt their love and me?
Know, good mother,
Endured all weathers.
AUFIDIUS:
rich by the fairies. This is some changeling:
Before you had worn it out.

Sixscore fat oxen standing in my stalls,
Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,
For making me, so young, so old a widow!
A falsehood in its contrary as great
GLOUCESTER:
And make my wars on you: look to't: come on;
That is too cold in thinking of it now.
VOLUMNIA:
Put on the gown, stand naked and entreat them,
Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,
Fortune speed us!
Because in quarrel of the house of York
The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile:
With being nothing. Music do I hear?
PETRUCHIO:
SLY:
Or than for strength and safety of our country.
O my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,

Which being so horrible, so bloody, must
Provost:
Than for his lineal royalties and to beg
The boy gives warning something doth approach.

I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower.

But, ere they live, to end.
Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
Does of the shepherds: for his best friends, if they

Together with the seal o' the senate, what
Second Murderer:
A pair of bleeding-hearts; thereon engrave

Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest,
For certain words he spake against your grace
ISABELLA:
PETRUCHIO:
It is, my lord.
In this so never-needed help, yet do not
Priest:
And put thy fortune to the arbitrement
O, be thou Dian, and let her be Kate;
GLOUCESTER:
Faith, gentlemen, now I play a merchant's part,
Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate,


Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates,
Hungary's!


Put up your swords.

O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison,
To fright them, ere destroy. But come in:
Ah, ha, my lord, this prince is not an Edward!
The king hath on him such a countenance
SEBASTIAN:
Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this
Madam, we did: he desires to make atonement

A man of Claudio's years; his beard and head
As if I had received them for the hire
Matters of needful value. We shall write to you,
I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind;
sought for, in the great chamber.
Ay, what's o'clock?
AUTOLYCUS:

My sons, God knows what hath bechanced them:

it with stamped coin, not stabbing steel; therefore
And therefore fortify your hold, my lord.
A sign of dignity, a garish flag,

CORIOLANUS:
One of our order, to associate me,

No, misery makes sport to mock itself:
MENENIUS:
The one half of my commission; and set down--
AUFIDIUS:
LEONTES:
And affecting one sole throne,
On him I lay what you would lay on me,
CAPULET:

Our treasures seized, our soldiers put to flight,
Of general ignorance,--it must omit

AUTOLYCUS:
You take my lord, I'll give him my commission
And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
Lives not to act another. Be satisfied;
Away, away! Once more, sweet lords farewell.
GREMIO:
But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be

Gaoler:
GLOUCESTER:
For our first merriment hath made thee jealous.
I will unfold some causes of your deaths.
Stand by, a looker on.
Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his
And bring in cloudy night immediately.
of boots that have been candle-cases, one buckled,
LADY CAPULET:
Not able to endure the sight of day,
KING EDWARD IV:

Nor I, nor any
Dare rack his own: his subject am I not,

With modest warrant.
BENVOLIO:
This shall assure my constant loyalty,

Post you to London, and you will find it so;
To Bristol castle, which they say is held
He is my father, sir; and, sooth to say,
BAPTISTA:
Die in his youth by like untimely violence!

Did never meddle with my thoughts.
I am weary; yea, my memory is tired.

Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow.
One jot of ceremony.
First Servant:
Is still a dying horror!
So many hours must I take my rest;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
You know the lady; she is fast my wife,
Post:
courted now with a double occasion, gold and a means
No earthly mean to save him, but that either
And in thy thought o'er-run my former time;
I should be guiltier than my guiltiness,


Quit presently the chapel, or resolve you
And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side.
Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.
And gasping to begin some speech, her eyes
Before you punish him, where he heard this,

I promise you, I scarcely know myself:
I then crave pardon of your majesty.
Then, in the name of God and all these rights,

A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous,
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.

Ghost of King Henry VI:
His majesty
have you whipt: so, for this time, Pompey, fare you well.

That wear upon your virgin branches yet
Do me this right; hear me with patience.
To you and toward your friend, whose love had spoke,

What dost thou then in prison?
COMINIUS:
Not possible; for who shall bear your part,
As if it had lungs and rotten ones.
and kneel for grace and mercy at my feet;
and drown? Have you a mind to sink?
His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,
Where is the foolish knave I sent before?
Here, madam:

I'll do well yet. Thou old and true Menenius,
Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.
Make the prize light.
CLARENCE:
another laced, an old rusty sword ta'en out of the
Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound
may, though they cannot praise us, as little accuse
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
With what's unreal thou coactive art,
Happily we met; the happier for thy son.
HASTINGS:
BRUTUS:


From rascals worse than they.
To strive for that which resteth in my choice:
WARWICK:
My tongue to such a pace:--'Look, sir, my wounds!
The lands and waters 'twixt your throne and his
King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak,
Preserver of my father, now of me,
Evermore cross'd and cross'd; nothing but cross'd!

LADY CAPULET:
My gracious lord,
No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,
he would show most love. When yet he was but


So full of dismal terror was the time!
Given to the fire, a moiety of my rest
And hark, what noise the general makes! To him!
It is Lord Angelo.
Have sold their lives unto the house of York;
In all her best array bear her to church:
LARTIUS:
No, good madam; I will not out of doors.

Where the disease is violent. Lay hands upon him,
Of what it is not. Then, thrice-gracious queen,
BAPTISTA:
For here, I hope, begins our lasting joy.
Do you quarrel, sir?
And when the rage allays, the rain begins.
Go, Cleomenes;
The more that Henry was unfortunate.
I will not peace. What is the matter, Aumerle.

KING EDWARD IV:

Kept in my soul, and would not let it forth

ISABELLA:
Second Citizen:

By whom, Camillo?
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
Father:
Away, sir! you must go.
Why, very well; I hope here be truths. He, sir,

Worst in this royal presence may I speak,
I am now going to resolve him: I had rather my
I will be angry: what hast thou to do?
The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted

And tent themselves with death. Of all the horses,
Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
Nurse:
Richard, enough; I will be king, or die.


Citizen:
What, ho! my lord!

JOHN OF GAUNT:
Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
GLOUCESTER:
GRUMIO:

What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
SOMERSET:
Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Then we are rid of Licio.

my father is here look'd for every day,
What is this? sport?
Thou dost advise me
Become your time of day; and yours, and yours,
And hardly kept our countrymen together,

Ay, marry, am I, sir; and now 'tis plotted.
MENENIUS:

To draw with idle spiders' strings
Twenty-three years, and saw myself unbreech'd,

O, let me see thee walk: thou dost not halt.
I shall have more than you can dream of yet;
Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls--
And mock'd the dead bones that lay scatter'd by.

Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold
Who have we here?
Which shows me mine changed too; for I must be
Here he comes, and in the gown of humility: mark his
Have done! for shame, if not for charity.

are many, or else your actions would grow wondrous

And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.
By silken, sly, insinuating Jacks?
That, to deserve well at my brother's hands,
Provost:
And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
Nor to be seen: my crown is called content:

What's done i' the Capitol; who's like to rise,

Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,
To set the crown once more on Henry's head:


Then I degraded you from being king,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
KING EDWARD IV:
And, look, when I am king, claim thou of me
Where I shall kneel to him that slew my father!
With this dead-killing news!
EDWARD:
Give mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more.
He hath good usage and great liberty,
Yielded the town: he is retired to Antium.
And by their vehement instigation,
Let me but meet you, ladies, one hour hence,
First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the people.


Let us be back'd with God and with the seas
Amen, sir: to my poor unworthy notice,
In peace was never gentle lamb more mild,
Like one that stands upon a promontory,
Hath made her break out into terms of rage!
though I am not bookish, yet I can read
kind and natural; with him, the portion and sinew of
I'll geld 'em all; fourteen they shall not see,
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,
To sacred Delphos, to Apollo's temple,
to continue now, thou varlet; thou art to continue.

CORIOLANUS:
Bequeath to death your numbness, for from him

VOLUMNIA:
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Murder, stem murder, in the direst degree;
A begging prince what beggar pities not?
Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence,
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
Or, if I live, is it not very like,
Fasten'd and fix'd the shame on't in himself,
Pray, get you out.
Take special care my greetings be deliver'd.
Why, so! then am I sure of victory.
No matter where; of comfort no man speak:
PAULINA:
Why, you are nothing then: neither maid, widow, nor wife?
Would blow you through and through.

Fame, at the which he aims,
As I intend to thrive in this new world,
JULIET:
From some forefather grief; mine is not so,
Third Citizen:
Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder,

For I intend but only to surprise him.
Which made the fault that we cannot correct,
Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.
Than ever you or yours were by me wrong'd!
Therefore take with thee my most heavy curse;
If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,
And, with that word, she struck me on the head,

on mine honour; and so, I pray, go with us.

And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
Boatswain:
EDWARD:
A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
He doth with holy abstinence subdue
Canst thou demise to any child of mine?
After the battle let George Stanley die.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And do expect him here some two hours hence.


That shall be wood and wedded in a day.
EXETER:
Why then, by God--
Your followers I will whisper to the business,
Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
How he may soften at the sight o' the child:
One of our souls had wander'd in the air.
But are they, Ariel, safe?
Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.
They are near the city?
And orphans for their parents timeless death--
I beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give;
First Citizen:
SEBASTIAN:
Our tradesmen with in their shops and going
What's o'clock, think you?
Whom I encounter'd as the battles join'd.

knock me well, and knock me soundly'? And come you

PERDITA:
Is far beyond a prince's delicates,

HORTENSIO:
PAULINA:
That hath authority over him that swears:

And I, my lord, will bear him company.
HORTENSIO:
O, not by much.
Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
Why, then the world and all that's in't is nothing;


I thank thee, gentle Percy; and be sure
Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
HORTENSIO:
JOHN OF GAUNT:
First Senator:
Thou hast amazed me: by my holy order,
BAPTISTA:
Clown:
As with the meat, some undeserved fault
At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
Profess'd to him, why, his revenges must
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And state of bodies would bewray what life
ESCALUS:
Her face defaced with scars of infamy,
Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
The pleasure that some fathers feed upon,
To make thy riches pleasant. What's yet in this
And now in peace my soul shall part to heaven,
Dispatch, I prithee.
First, let her show her face, and after speak.
He breathes, my lord. Were he not warm'd with ale,
I must dance bare-foot on her wedding day
Where of the execution did cry out
This is no mortal business, nor no sound
QUEEN:
Be advised.
You'll kiss me hard and speak to me as if
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
Of these Plantagenets, Henry and Edward,
True; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels,
kings and princes; for by such was it acted.

RIVERS:
by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
like the horse; with a linen stock on one leg and a
Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
PETRUCHIO:

Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,
Who was the model of thy father's life.
In God's name and the king's, say who thou art
That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.

Ay, Edward will use women honourably.
Too noble for this place.
ANGELO:
My language! heavens!
To execute the like upon thyself;
CLARENCE:
GRUMIO:
I understand the business, I hear it: to have an
one puritan amongst them, and he sings psalms to
Is counted lost for ever, Perdita,
Pardon me, if you please; if not, I, pleased


GLOUCESTER:
I am a-weary, give me leave awhile:
How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,
ISABELLA:
Though destiny say no. Be merry, gentle;
ELBOW:
Must all determine here?
Which for some reasons, sir, I mean to see.

DUKE VINCENTIO:
Farewell, my Hector, and my Troy's true hope.
Must, as a foreign recreant, be led
The root of his opinion, which is rotten
and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:

Note me this, good friend;
If this foul deed were by to equal it:
Indeed, he should be a footman by the garments he
Most wrongfully accused your substitute,



so long am I at the least. But wilt thou make a

For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
Good queen!
They have not been commanded, mighty sovereign:
Why, gentlemen, you do me double wrong,
That I may pass this doing.
VOLUMNIA:
KING RICHARD III:
LADY  CAPULET:
FLORIZEL:
QUEEN MARGARET:
Second Messenger:
ROMEO:
When every grief is entertain'd that's offer'd,
Some aqua vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!
My men should call me 'lord:' I am your goodman.
Happy return be to your royal grace!
But thou shouldst please me better, wouldst thou weep.
Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting,
May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit.
Please you dismiss me either with 'ay' or 'no.'
Decline all this, and see what now thou art:
O excellent devise! make a sop of him.
I am glad on 't: then we shall ha' means to vent

Give way there, and go on!
Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
KATHARINA:
But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
Mowbray, impartial are our eyes and ears:
Since what I am to say must be but that


Put not your worthy rage into your tongue;

So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives,

By Bushy, Bagot and their complices,
AUTOLYCUS:
And that a winged Mercury did bear:
When he doth bid good morrow with such a spirit.
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate

With all his trim belonging; and from this time,
The leaves and fruit maintain'd with beauty's sun,

Meantime, God grants that we have need of you:
VIRGILIA:
issuing blood


front his revenges with the easy groans of old
MERCUTIO:
ROMEO:
I am not yet instructed.
Unapt to toil and trouble in the world,
You must think, if we give you any thing, we hope to
Being ne'er so little urged, another way
HASTINGS:


Deceived in thy integrity, deceived

KING EDWARD IV:
To fright me with your sprites; you're powerful at it.
YORK:
KING RICHARD II:
MENENIUS:


Tell them that God bids us do good for evil:

and vengeance bitter; but those that are germane to
Yes, faith, sir.
heard the shepherd say, he found the child.

Sneak not away, sir; for the friar and you
To raze one title of your honour out:
And joy comes well in such a needy time:
Could I with boot change for an idle plume,
To your worship's house, sir?
It skills not much. we'll fit him to our turn,--
Nay, it's no matter for that.
Bishop of Exeter, his brother there,
GREEN:
MONTAGUE:

I have not yet made known to Mariana
If I did take the kingdom from your sons,
My tears gainsay; for every word I speak,
That we may be admitted where he is.
Should not produce fair issue.
I do not sleep: I see, I hear, I speak;
All mine own folly--the society,
An if he may, then am I lawful king;
Wrecked the same instant of their master's death and
How youngly he began to serve his country,
FRANCISCO:
COMINIUS:
To tire your royalty.
And take her hence in horror.
drab I purchased this caparison, and my revenue is

Tell me for truth the measure of his love
discords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shall
Is this the alliance that he seeks with France?
'lady, lady, lady.'
Humbling their deities to love, have taken
But what, o' God's name, doth become of this?
KING HENRY VI:
For I will hence to Warwick's other daughter;
RIVERS:
Which didst unworthy slaughter upon others.
To do this ruthless piece of butchery,


Even in these honest mean habiliments:
more mature dignities and royal necessities made

How well my comfort is revived by this!
The foe is merciless, and will not pity;
Evermore showering? In one little body
I take it up; and by that sword I swear
Come, I have heard that fearful commenting

Arise, dissembler: though I wish thy death,

Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
Indeed, I have had earnest: but I cannot with
Sign me a present pardon for my brother,
Now, brother king, farewell, and sit you fast,
LUCIO:
To bring this tidings to the bloody king.

Now I arise:
name, Master tapster?
KING HENRY VI:
Of woeful ages long ago betid;
With striving less to be so; lesser had been
You may partake of any thing we say:
It follows in his thought that I am he.
Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,

As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds,
Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
Weep, wretched man, I'll aid thee tear for tear;
I' the city of kites and crows! What an ass it is!

thou me yet?
beguile the old pantaloon.
CLAUDIO:
Than faults may shake our frames,--let me be bold;
tell you you have good faces. If you see this in
Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not:
Thou art the first knave that e'er madest a duke.
That calumny doth use--O, I am out--
And hale him up and down, all swearing, if
And rob his temples of the diadem,
service, look you, sir, he bid me knock him and rap
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
Lucentio's father is arrived in Padua,

To be the aim of every dangerous shot,
As you shall well be satisfied withal.
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
O, pardon me, my lord; it oft falls out,

And with his charity slain.
monstrous members.
Nurse:

COMINIUS:
The horrible conceit of death and night,
In what I further shall intend to do,
PETRUCHIO:
LEONTES:

thou art preparing fire for us; look thee, here's

To me a break-neck. Happy star, reign now!
Nurse:
But basely yielded upon compromise
Will serve the turn.
'Tis my deserving, and I do entreat it.
First Officer:

Call Coriolanus.
sentenced and stay upon execution.



COMINIUS:
Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas,
MERCUTIO:
Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
Which out of daily fortune ever taints

Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.
You have no children, butchers! if you had,

Till I conveniently could send to Romeo:
Provost:

Arise to let him in: he is call'd up.
Have at you for a bitter jest or two!
I have not been desirous of their wealth,
Pray you, go fit you to the custom and
I do present you with a man of mine,
I long with all my heart to see the prince:
Never hung poison on a fouler toad.
Second Murderer:
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
What work's, my countrymen, in hand? where go you
To Brecknock, while my fearful head is on!

use me with estimation.
To melt myself away in water-drops!
COMINIUS:
For common justice, you're as pregnant in


And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study,
GLOUCESTER:
To look that way thou wert.
I am content to hear; for 'tis as easy
For false forswearing and for murder too:

The King of Naples, being an enemy
But that we enter, as into our dukedom?
No, mighty King of France: now Margaret
KING RICHARD III:
No, not a whit: I find you passing gentle.
brother die by the law than my son should be
And nothing can we call our own but death

cannot be able to express it.
I'll none of it: hence! make your best of it.
And handed love as you do, I was wont
Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing

And soon I'll rid you from the fear of them.
Stay not to question, for the watch is coming;
No humble suitors press to speak for right,
As she that he hath stain'd?
Madam, undress you and come now to bed.
Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee
VIRGILIA:
AUTOLYCUS:
Which had you rather, that the most just law
Say no more:
In those unfledged days was my wife a girl;
MIRANDA:
AUFIDIUS:
To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
KING EDWARD IV:
Virtue itself: these shrugs, these hums and ha's,
If they have done this thing, my gracious lord--
Yet of your royal presence I'll adventure
the poor. If the wars eat us not up, they will; and
To pluck him headlong from the usurped throne.
Honest as either, to purge him of that humour
The scatter'd foe that hopes to rise again;
pedlar, by education a cardmaker, by transmutation a
LEONTES:


Please you, sir,
You cry against the noble senate, who,
Unto the sovereign mercy of the king;
CORIOLANUS:
And that so lamely and unfashionable
But doth suffer a sea-change
Widow! a pox o' that! How came that widow in?
O, ay, Curtis, ay: and therefore fire, fire; cast
To entail him and his heirs unto the crown,
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
Not better than he, by her own report.

By that and all the rites of knighthood else,
I am come to know your pleasure.
That will say anything but were they false
And, seeking death, find life: let it come on.
All this I know; and to the marriage
Or, if you'ld ask, remember this before:


That down fell priest and book and book and priest:
A bloody tyrant and a homicide;
That babies lulls asleep! the smiles of knaves
ABRAHAM:
And then, to dry them, gavest the duke a clout
Let liberty make use of; space enough
Rescue thy mistress, if thou be a man.
ANGELO:

Officer:

In this our fabric, if that they--
Thou, it seems, that calls for company to
More than it is ere foul sin gathering head
Second Murderer:
MONTAGUE:
RATCLIFF:
My gracious liege, this too much lenity
CLAUDIO:

Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for
I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself

Who loves another best.
him last night.

your appointment, go in your place; if the encounter

Cast your election on him.
First Senator:
thing that is fitting to be known, discover.
MENENIUS:
And straight disclaim their tongues? What are

I can no longer hold me patient.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
AUFIDIUS:
By his command

Commend me to my wife. I'll return consul;
TRANIO:
CLARENCE:
Softly and swiftly, sir; for the priest is ready.

Pedant:
Wherein the king stands generally condemn'd.
What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
If his own life answer the straitness of his



If 'gainst yourself you be incensed, we'll put you,
The ripest fruit first falls, and so doth he;

PROSPERO:
And if you break the ice and do this feat,

No, he must not.
This gentleman told somewhat of my tale,--
DUKE VINCENTIO:

QUEEN MARGARET:
Say 'What is it your honour will command?'
BUCKINGHAM:
Where is my wife?
Unless our halberds did shut up his passage.
And at the other is my servant Catesby
Clown:
Boatswain:
He thus should steal upon us.

DUCHESS OF YORK:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
A parasite, a keeper back of death,
HERMIONE:
Behold our human actions, as they do,

But that still use of grief makes wild grief tame,
Nothing goes right: we would, and we would not.
But, more of thy news?
Or all or lose his hire.
GLOUCESTER:


Of any thing the image tell me that
PAULINA:
Advantaging their loan with interest
With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
ISABELLA:
DUKE OF YORK:
POLIXENES:
From which even here I slip my weary neck,
And yet partake no venom, for his knowledge
Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.
Boy:
What subject can give sentence on his king?
I'll to the king; and signify to him
LADY ANNE:
And that you will some good instruction give
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
Well, well, no more of that.
Messenger:
A knot you are of damned blood-suckers!
Most incident to maids; bold oxlips and
O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!


SEBASTIAN:
Preoccupied with what you rather must do
I must eat my dinner.

Why dost thou run so many mile about,

MOPSA:
But that I do not.
BRUTUS:
I love thee not a jar o' the clock behind
How?
too little for your thief, your true man thinks it
'Tis a spell, you see, of much power: you know the
For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph day.
Last night she slept not, nor to-night she shall not;
And so do I. Victorious Prince of York,
Cunning in music and the mathematics,
Like an unseasonable stormy day,
GLOUCESTER:
And, to be short, what not, that's sweet and happy?


Ay, a thousand times.
Meantime, this deep disgrace in brotherhood

That's a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that
This found I on my tent this morning.
Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord,
Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
He hath paid you all he promised you; may be, he has
That 'only' came well in. Sir, list to me:
TYRREL:
And yet salt water blinds them not so much
Am starved for meat, giddy for lack of sleep,
Hear you this Triton of the minnows? mark you
The keys of all the posterns: please your highness
DUKE OF YORK:
I have look'd on thousands, who have sped the better
FRIAR LAURENCE:
speech of him.
'I Pray, sir'--Plague upon't! I cannot bring

going to bed, or kiln-hole, to whistle off these
Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing-while,
Your princely father and my loving lord!
Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
He is all the mother's, from the top to toe.
Forbear to sleep the nights, and fast the days;
I shall report,
Here am I left to underprop his land,
POLIXENES:
That your estate requires and mine can yield.
Mark'd you his lip and eyes?
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
And there it is in writing, fairly drawn.
You know the cause, air, of my standing here.
Ay, sir, in Pisa have I often been,

Three or four miles about, else had I, sir,
Of this most grievous guilty murder done!
the angry law; do no stain to your own gracious

To stay him from the fall of vanity:
HORTENSIO:
Wine, wine, wine! What service
First Servant:
Who sues to thee and cries 'God save the queen'?
Why should you fall into so deep an O?
defender of them, and, in a violent popular


With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home,
As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet,
Made peace enmity, fair love of hate,
His wish'd ability, he had himself
Resume that spirit, when you were wont to say,

You know your father's temper: at this time
STANLEY:
Dighton and Forrest, whom I did suborn
BUSHY:
Or thee? or thee? or any of your faction?
O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see
How will my wife for slaughter of my son
Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.
Piteous predicament! Even so lies she,
Shepard:
QUEEN MARGARET:

Only, this one: Lord Angelo is precise;
All which secure and sweetly he enjoys,
Farewell, farewell.

I would attach you all and make you stoop
Me and thy crying self.
To bar my master's heirs in true descent,
What think'st thou, then, of Stanley? what will he?
FRIAR LAURENCE:
HORTENSIO:
At young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter,
CAMILLO:
Not to be other than one thing, not moving
DUKE OF YORK:
I cry thee mercy:
Even to the general all-ending day.
My general cares not for you. Back, I say, go; lest
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,


in the view of the shepherd: so that all the
Because authority, though it err like others,

Thy beauty, that doth make me like thee well,
With mine own hands I give away my crown,


The Earl of Wiltshire is already there.
Bad news, my lord: Ely is fled to Richmond;
MIRANDA:
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.


KING EDWARD IV:

QUEEN MARGARET:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
horn-pipes. I must have saffron to colour the warden
MARIANA:
VOLUMNIA:


A lie that it must bear? Well, I will do't:

Take thy correction mildly, kiss the rod,

Scotland hath will to help, but cannot help;
LUCIO:
Whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep,

Dear gentlewoman,
As likely to be blest in peace and war;
Lord, let me never have a cause to sigh,
So 'twere not 'long of him; but being enter'd,
And what to?
For, by the way, I'll sort occasion,
Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy
My mate, that's never to be found again,
ROMEO:
He smiles, and says his Edward is install'd;

POLIXENES:
GREMIO:
First Citizen:

And therefore is he idle?
To sin in loving virtue: never could the strumpet,
'Tis figured in my tongue.
My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold,
CORIOLANUS:
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
Stay: whence are you?
To credit his own lie, he did believe
Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general,
With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.




This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
Of our most gracious mistress.

Were you in my stead, would you have heard

And ostentation of despised arms?
Messenger:
We let the people know't.

Became two spouts: the fury spent, anon
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.


Provost:
Till George be pack'd with post-horse up to heaven.
So to offend him still. This night's the time
ANTONIO:
found so severe, that he hath forced me to tell him
I am the king's friend, and will rid his foe.

I hope the king is not yet shipp'd for Ireland.
Bear hence this body and attend our will:

Enjoy your mistress, from the whom, I see,
He's a lamb indeed, that baes like a bear.
My lord!
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
O mercy, God! what masquing stuff is here?
Tyrannical power: if he evade us there,

She better would have fitted me or Clarence:
By cold gradation and well-balanced form,
sorrows I might be some allay, or I o'erween to
Burn hotter than my faith.

horses ran away, how her bridle was burst, how I

In following this usurping Henry.
When I said, banish him, I said 'twas pity.
Then go with me to make the matter good.
daughter of most rare note: the report of her is

him.
To undeck the pompous body of a king;
Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch Sycorax,
And, by his soul, thou and thy house shall rue it.

A Player:
Do strike at my injustice.
VIRGILIA:

Nor what is mine shall never do thee good:


Your beauty was the cause of that effect;

Let me entreat you.
Messenger:
matter merrily set down, or a very pleasant thing

LUCIO:
Justice:
Fear you not him. Sirrah Biondello,
RUTLAND:
Give me my boots, I say; saddle my horse.
Like a dull actor now,
Sits safe and still without him.
Hostess:
RICHARD:
Henry Bolingbroke
JULIET:
God-den to you all, god-den to you all.
Look, what I will not, that I cannot do.
Son of Polixenes, with his princess, she
Will not the mayor then and his brethren come?
Bring me my boots: I will unto the king.
Content, content.
report fort, but that he pays himself with being proud.
These words will cost ten thousand lives this day.
In gross rebellion and detested treason:
Though I could wish
Then, as the manner of our country is,


LADY GREY:
Loved as he loves himself: even now I met him
I'll see your grace: till then I'll follow her.
Adieu, poor soul, that takest thy leave of it!
After I have done what I promised?
And none of them been worn; and, for a name,
master Vincentio! now we are undone and brought to nothing.
MENENIUS:
That your free undertaking cannot miss
Only fair speech.
but in his clothes; and one that hath spoke most
And craves no other tribute at thy hands
Norfolk, we must have knocks; ha! must we not?

'Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
And scarr'd the moon with splinters: here I clip
and their consent of one direct way should be at
LADY CAPULET:
Prithee, peace.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

And do not interrupt me in my course.

When such a sacred king should hide his head.
FRIAR THOMAS:
At my petition; I beseech you, rather
Go where you will, the king shall be commanded;
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop,
He who the sword of heaven will bear
Perfume for a lady's chamber;
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes

BUSHY:
Do you call, sir?

To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
Servant:
That I, being govern'd by the watery moon,
Third Citizen:
We shill employ thee in a worthier place.
Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
fantasticoes; these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,
And call us wretches, orphans, castaways
Good ladies, let's go. Yes, yes, yes; the senate

Appointed to direct these fair designs.
All:
aboard, tender your persons to his presence,
HASTINGS:
And squarest thy life according. Thou'rt condemn'd:
And spur thee on with full as many lies

KING RICHARD III:
Alas, I blame you not; for you are mortal,
His treasons will sit blushing in his face,
They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold
And, as we march, our strength will be augmented
A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,
Hot lavender, mints, savoury, marjoram;
GREY:

If thou be merciful,
Much more to be thus opposite with heaven,

'Tis well; and I have met a gentleman
ARCHBISHOP OF YORK:


BALTHASAR:
PROSPERO:
To whom should I complain? Did I tell this,
Why dost thou stay?
They would not thread the gates. This kind of service
Neighbours and friends, though bride and
BENVOLIO:
A vessel under sail, so men obey'd
FLORIZEL:

Till I can find occasion of revenge.
Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight
Things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour.
It shall be done, my sovereign, with all speed.
Thy friend no less
If she have time to breathe be well assured

That it may be this day read over in Paul's.
O, good sir, tenderly, O!


I am too mean a subject for thy wrath:


To a mother's part belongs. He turns away:

She sings as sweetly as a nightingale:
But none can cure their harms by wailing them.

I think there be six Richmonds in the field;
KING HENRY VI:

PETRUCHIO:
No, by my troth, my lord.
HERMIONE:

That sets them on: let me have way, my lord,
Until my husband bid me.
I do not know what witchcraft's in him, but
MONTAGUE:
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.
O Harry's wife, triumph not in my woes!
No doubt, no doubt; and so shall Clarence too;
As wealth is burden of my wooing dance,

To seek him here that means not to be found.
Not to them all.


Basta; content thee, for I have it full.
I cannot speak
Now Lord be thanked for my good amends!
Was it more precious to me than 'tis now:
Who brought it?
Then strike up drums: God and Saint George for us!
BIANCA:

RICHARD:
Second Servingman:
To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
CLARENCE:
A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,

Even thou and none but thou. Take it up straight:
Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
This follows, if you will not change your purpose




What became of his bark and his followers?
Ay, sir.

Such as the daughter of Agenor had,

Will but remember me what a deal of world
You know me, do you not?
O, ay, what else?
Now, by my holidame, here comes Katharina!
It is, such crimson tempest should bedrench
Had I been any god of power, I would
You know him not, sir.
CORIOLANUS:
known well enough too?
To be imprison'd in the viewless winds,

Resolved for flight. Now were I happy, if
Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;
Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift

Amity too, of your brave father, whom,
O, that it were as like as it is true!
He something seems unsettled.
So had you need.
Call Edward king and at his hands beg mercy?
do you know me?
Where are those--Sit down, Kate, and welcome.--
In this which you accuse her.

And help to arm me. Leave me, I say.
Deck'd in thy rights, as thou art stall'd in mine!
SICINIUS:
May deem that you are worthily deposed.
Who would believe me? O perilous mouths,
You have often
It shall be so.
me to the gaol.


He came alive to land.
Crowns what you are doing in the present deed,
Ay, with five hundred, father, for a need:
He hath got his friend with child.

house-eaves, because they are lecherous. The duke
And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?
HERMIONE:
Strike at the heaven with your staves as lift them
They thus directed, we will follow

Sister, farewell; I must to Coventry:
On pain of death, no person be so bold
Well, be't so, prithee.
Where kings command. I was, I must confess,
Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report
Why, love forswore me in my mother's womb:
My brother and thy uncle, call'd Antonio--




What is your will?
We have as many friends as enemies.



Good Captain Blunt, bear my good night to him
TRANIO:
As near as I could sift him on that argument,
LADY CAPULET:
Which runs himself and catches for his master.
For now hath time made me his numbering clock:

ISABELLA:
And say, 'Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife,
The more my wrong, the more his spite appears:
Upon my head and all this famous land.
Alas, I am the mother of these moans!
For chair and dukedom, throne and kingdom say;
You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!

Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
LEONTES:
But when I came, some minute ere the time
Then fly. What, from myself?   Great reason why:
Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour?

POMPEY:
I am so sorry for my trespass made
First Lord:
Is that an answer?
has the prettiest love-songs for maids; so without
If he be slain, say 'I'; or if not, no:
My lord, dispatch; read o'er these articles.

O, by this count I shall be much in years


Music, awake her; strike!
And yet his punishment was cruel death.
On pure heart's love to greet the tender princes.
KING RICHARD III:
To take their rooms, ere I can place myself:
Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord;
Servant:
She speaks this in the infirmity of sense.
waiting-gentlewoman in the 'scape. This has been
As therefore kept to do so.
MENENIUS:
Our swifter composition.
Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!
But most himself, if he could see his shame.


To pluck on others.
KING RICHARD III:


Let's have that, good sir.
Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
Of what that want might ruin.
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
By that false woman, as this king by thee.
Look, here comes one: a gentlewoman of mine,

GONZALO:
AEdile:
Still live they and for ever may they last!


What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
KING RICHARD II:
No, my good lord;
HERMIONE:
Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
The price is to ask it kindly.
Didst note it?
Fear not, my lord: that Power that made you king
As is the spring to the earth. And hath he too
A man already made, as to remit
ANTIGONUS:

To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,

And keep their teeth clean.

Anger's my meat; I sup upon myself,
And with the clamour keep her still awake.
Yonder man is carried to prison.
on's teeth.
And the compact is firm and true in me.
The one for ever earn'd a royal husband;
Thou seest what's past, go fear thy king withal.


To see thy son and heir more early down.
But when extremities speak. I have heard you say,
DUKE VINCENTIO:


Bear with her weakness, which, I think proceeds
Oxford, how haps it, in this smooth discourse,
Is nothing kin to foul redemption.
To find this practise out.
ELBOW:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
'Tis said, my liege, in Yorkshire are in arms.
Which, at more leisure, I will so excuse
Most palates theirs. They choose their magistrate,

How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
DUKE VINCENTIO:

His filth within being cast, he would appear
Dismantle you, and, as you can, disliken
God gi' god-den. I pray, sir, can you read?
ROMEO:
ANTIGONUS:
O single-soled jest, solely singular for the
And bear the sow-skin budget,
'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud;
AUTOLYCUS:


Here, master: what cheer?
Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
Gentlemen, God save you. If I may be bold,
I call upon thee.
In token of which duty, if he please,
If that be all, masters, I hear no harm.
SAMPSON:
Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow.

Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight:
YORK:
TYRREL:
Seize on the shame-faced Henry, bear him hence;
Forbids to dwell upon: yet remember this,
Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld
In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted,
At that sad stop, my lord,
Which seems a little fouler than it is,
Why should he die, sir?
'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you:
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard
And since you do profess to be a suitor,
Away with it! come, let me have a bigger.

From my own windows torn my household coat,
We'll part the time between's then; and in that
And cloister thee in some religious house:
If friend or foe, let him be gently used.
No man knows whither.
KING RICHARD II:
But keep our course, though the rough wind say no,
Worthy enough a herdsman: yea, him too,
HORTENSIO:
Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir.
If I should be! I had rather be a pedlar:

Post:
The very virtue of compassion in thee,
I am hush'd until our city be a-fire,
How know you that?
me yare; for truly, sir, for your kindness I owe you
And birth, that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit.
You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
SICINIUS:
I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
Where I must take like seat unto my fortune,
Her sister Katharina welcomed you withal?
I thank thee, Varrius; thou hast made good haste:
Upon thy doings: thousand escapes of wit
And with our fair entreaties haste them on.
Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave,

The rather for I have some sport in hand
And interchangeably set down their hands,
Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
My lord,
If could speak so wisely under an arrest, I would
Pardon is all the suit I have in hand.
MERCUTIO:
My liege, it is young Henry, earl of Richmond.
than legs, nor no more shoes than feet; nay,
I would to God, my lords, he might be found:
Widow, we will consider of your suit;
That would reduce these bloody days again,
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
Short tale to make, we at Saint Alban's met
O this learning, what a thing it is!
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.

too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
Despised substance of divinest show!
CLAUDIO:
Nay, an there were two such, we should have none
Which in a napkin being close convey'd
And I do hope good days and long to see.
He cannot live, I hope; and must not die


Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain:

What fellow's this?
attentiveness wounded his daughter; till, from one
Why, what is it, my lord?
There is another friar that set them on;


Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
To come at traitors' calls and do them grace.
Unbuckling helms, fisting each other's throat,
The knights and gentlemen to come with thee:
continency; sparrows must not build in his
If you refuse it,--as, in love and zeal,

First Murderer:
And sent according to command; whiles I
And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate;
Provost:
yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the
Gentlemen, that I may soon make good
Yes; I do think that you might pardon him,

Are now to have no successive degrees,
Royally!
The trick of's frown, his forehead, nay, the valley,
And yet runn'st toward him still. Thou art not noble;

FLORIZEL:
CLARENCE:
And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
And when came George from Burgundy to England?
FLORIZEL:
At unawares may beat down Edward's guard
Provost:

On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand
Offer their own lives in their young's defence?
JULIET:
It shall be possible. Swear by this sword
beyond credit,--
Why ask I that? my mangled body shows,
Needs must I like it well: I weep for joy
Full of rose-water and bestrew'd with flowers,
Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio.
That lack'd sight only, nought for approbation
MENENIUS:
Woe the while!
God save the mark!--here on his manly breast:
Of holy reverence; who, I cannot learn.
And with him rises weeping: these are flowers
The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
GLOUCESTER:
Sound trumpets! let our bloody colours wave!
Here stand we both, and aim we at the best:

Dolour comes to him, indeed: you
Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after supper,
O, a cherubim
Here in this island we arrived; and here
To answer mildly; for they are prepared
So high above his limits swells the rage
WARWICK:

Saddle white Surrey for the field to-morrow.
We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates;
Better be held nor more attain'd than by
Hadst thou groan'd for him

Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
And therefore 'tis called a sensible tale: and this
By heaven, I come in perfect love to him;

Come, cords, come, nurse; I'll to my wedding-bed;

But that the next heir should succeed and reign.


GRUMIO:
For Warwick is a subtle orator,
'Tis he, my lord. Come hither, goodman baldpate:
Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin,
Now, good Camillo;

And leave the burthen of it all on thee.

MARIANA:
tailors, and breed ballad-makers.
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
JULIET:
For this alliance may so happy prove,
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
MERCUTIO:
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
Second Murderer:
The which shall point you forth at every sitting
Such friends as time in Padua shall beget.
First Citizen:
What is she but a foul contending rebel
But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
I'll answer thee in any fair degree,
Sir, most heedfully.
Well, but what's o'clock?
What's he that now is going out of door?
In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it.
Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter

But, sure, I fear, we shall ne'er win him to it.
And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on:
Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings
The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,
POMPEY:
While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne.
Please you to accept it, that the queen is spotless


Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice six
Would they make peace? terrible hell make war
RATCLIFF:
The sight of any of the house of York
And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
KING RICHARD III:
York and young Rutland could not satisfy.

Not she: nor doth she tempt: but it is I
What I can urge against him. Although it seems,
But smother'd it within my panting bulk,
They gave us our demands.' Thus we debase
Change shapes with Proteus for advantages,

To fail in the disposing of those chances
Insisting on the old prerogative
Flatter my sorrows with report of it;
WARWICK:
Whilst I propose the selfsame words to thee,
LEONTES:


But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
Shepherd:

Insulting tyranny begins to jet
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
With labour and the thing she took to quench it,

Thy Clarence he is dead that kill'd my Edward;
And he that will not fight for such a hope.

PETRUCHIO:
Under whose colours he had fought so long.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And blindfold death not let me see my son.
BENVOLIO:
HORTENSIO:
Your highness shall repose you at the Tower:
BIANCA:
To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.
From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,
Third Watchman:
Is yet unanswer'd. I will to your father:
Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,
3 KING HENRY VI
I have seen thee stem, and thou hast oft beheld
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.

I can tell thee pretty tales of the duke.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Here love; thou see'st how diligent I am
There's not a grain of it the face to sweeten
PETRUCHIO:


GLOUCESTER:

We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice
Petruchio, I shall be your ben venuto.
Have been so brief with you, to shorten you,
GLOUCESTER:
Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
GLOUCESTER:
Hark, Perdita

Let be, let be.
Alack, poor soul! thou hast need of more rags to lay

KING EDWARD IV:
And fill'd with honour, to my kingly guest
Ye favourites of a king: are we not high?
WARWICK:
For their own good and ours.
Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungs
Page:
Than Prospero, master of a full poor cell,
dull tribunes,
SICINIUS:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
mortality, and desperately mortal.
BUCKINGHAM:
I mean to utter it, or both yourself and me
If secret powers
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,

O ho, O ho! would't had been done!

Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes,


ISABELLA:

Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,
My Lord of Somerset, what youth is that,

When I shall gust it last. How came't, Camillo,

KATHARINA:
Call that same Isabel here once again; I would speak with her.

GLOUCESTER:
The commonwealth doth stand, and so would do,
We took this mattock and this spade from him,
Hereafter time, for time past wrong'd by thee.


If I unwittingly, or in my rage,
Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?
COMINIUS:

To me the difference forges dread; your greatness
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
The hateful commons will perform for us,
Indeed, 'tis true that Henry told me of;
MENENIUS:
GLOUCESTER:
So. What trade are you of, sir?

CAMILLO:
Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
Then speak at once what is it thou demand'st.
A fault on us, your tribunes; that we laboured,
To make you garlands of, and my sweet friend,
As 'twere triumphing at mine enemies,
tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, when
Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee!
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
Ay, but mildly.
Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble,
To visit the next room, I'll presently
MENENIUS:
And turn you all your hatred now on me?
Instinctively had quit it: there they hoist us,
Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?
Against a change; woe is forerun with woe.
BENVOLIO:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'
Cursed be I that did so! All the charms
Rail on the Lord's enointed: strike, I say!
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
Comes hunting this way to disport himself.


Come, sir; come, sir; come, sir; foh, sir! Why, you
Their talk at table, and their thanks at end;
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.
Nurse:



Without more mercy, to its own protection
DERBY:
complaint they have to the king concerns him
First Conspirator:

To see her in your arms.
By this one bloody trial of sharp war.
The urging of that word 'judgment' hath bred a kind
RATCLIFF:
KING EDWARD IV:
With cautelous baits and practise.
murderer dead,
Against the state and profit of this land;
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,
I tell you, sir, she bears me fair in hand.

BIANCA:
Stay, fellow; I can read.
Why, no; for he hath made a solemn vow
that your senses, unintelligent of our insufficience,
friar. But no more of this. Canst thou tell if
The fraughting souls within her.
CLARENCE:
You gods, look down
DUKE VINCENTIO:
And death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;

KING EDWARD IV:
ISABELLA:
We have been down together in my sleep,
Ay, and mine,

A dozen years; within which space she died
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:
Requite your love!
EDWARD:
I swear to do this, though a present death
Was not Gaunt just, and is not Harry true?
fellow partner.
For ever
ROMEO:
him to prison! Where is the provost? Away with him
I had a Richard too, and thou didst kill him;
Second Herald:
LARTIUS:
CAMILLO:
Speak it in French, king; say, 'pardonne moi.'
Lord George your brother, Norfolk and myself,

I will tell her, sir, that you do protest; which, as
He says, to veil full purpose.
Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters.
'Tis a lucky day, boy, and we'll do good deeds on't.
And show fair duty to his majesty.
Is coming towards me, and my inward soul
By all external warrants, show it now,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Even when you please, since you will have it so.
Sir, my lord,
To watch the waning of mine adversaries.

Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain;
Shall, whiles thy head is warm and new cut off,
Second Citizen:
Clown:
There, Coriolanus.
TRANIO:
That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
BUCKINGHAM:
Come, thou tortoise! when?
LEONTES:
BUCKINGHAM:

What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,
FLORIZEL:
You are welcome, gentlemen! come, musicians, play.
GLOUCESTER:
do it for some piece of money, and go through with
DERBY:
TRANIO:
Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you
Softly, my masters! if you be gentlemen,
And so he walks, insulting o'er his prey,
GLOUCESTER:
Shamed their aspect with store of childish drops:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
HORTENSIO:
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
VOLUMNIA:
To see this business. To-morrow next
And the poor beetle, that we tread upon,
fairer face.
Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
MERCUTIO:
If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer


A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but
paid you more, which will shame you to give him again.

KATHARINA:
Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs:
Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent;
If ever he have child, abortive be it,
Return to the tribunes.
Both in your form and nobleness of mind;
And lastly, to confirm that amity

For now he lives in fame, though not in life.
Then would I hide my bones, not rest them here.
QUEEN MARGARET:

MENENIUS:
A thing like death to chide away this shame,

As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer.
And turns the sun to shade; alas! alas!
My noble steed, known to the camp, I give him,
Makes him to send; that thereby he may gather
FLORIZEL:

The pretty wretch left crying and said 'Ay.'
With hair up-staring,--then like reeds, not hair,--
Take not, good cousin, further than you should.
Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
Which can make gods forsworn? I melt, and am not
And make bold power look pale--they threw their caps
Infuse his breast with magnanimity
ROMEO:
O Kate, content thee; prithee, be not angry.
Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead?
Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!
LADY CAPULET:




ESCALUS:
Gardener:
Is not here passable.
Ay, gracious sovereign; they are so link'd in
LUCIO:
LADY CAPULET:
I smell the trick on't.
VIRGILIA:
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
Why came I hither but to that intent?
I'll bring mine action on the proudest he
Peace be with you!
I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.

An hypocrite, a virgin-violator;
It will the woefullest division prove
All:
Shall not regreet our fair dominions,
Nor I; my spirits are nimble.
LEONTES:
Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
To royalize his blood I spilt mine own.
Here comes a messenger. What news?
Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts,
For in an act of this importance 'twere
'I am yours for ever.'
Good Clarence, do; sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord:
Lament till I am lost.
A place of potency and sway o' the state,
That always favour'd him.
Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong,
We are less afraid to be drowned than thou art.
I had rather be their servant in my way,
My lord, I hear the Marquis Dorset's fled
Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave,
Thou hadst a Clarence too, and Richard kill'd him.
And as for you yourself, our quondam queen,
No! why?  When he that is my husband now
Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence
Which, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,
God save your lordship!
And makes her pew-fellow with others' moan!

Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
he would mouth with a beggar, though she smelt brown

Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love;


GLOUCESTER:
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
God for his mercy, what treachery is here!
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
BRAKENBURY:
The impression of keen whips I'ld wear as rubies,
Unarm'd, and unresolved to beat them back:


Him vile that was your garland. What's the matter,
yields pound and odd shilling; fifteen hundred
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest house in it
Proceed:
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
All to the senate-house: some news is come
Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,
But self-affrighted tremble at his sin.
The time to come.

Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:
Go to, go to!
Go, call my men, and let us straight to him;
A dearer merit, not so deep a maim

Of a despised life closed in my breast

Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact,
What, what, what? let's partake.
For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
fob off our disgrace with a tale: but, an 't please
Great king, within this coffin I present
AUFIDIUS:
COMINIUS:
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
I like your silence, it the more shows off
I'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,
sweet sorrow,
Upon his bad life to make all this good,
That none of you may live your natural age,
BUCKINGHAM:

Yet are they passing cowardly. But, I beseech you,
GRUMIO:

Unto their lords, by them accomplished:
BISHOP OF ELY:
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
MIRANDA:
Grumio, my horse.
Because you talk of pride now,--will you not be angry?
LEONTES:
Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away? He
The nobles in great earnestness are going
She that accuses him of fornication,

If it be so,
What cannot be, slight work.
And yet I would it were to give again.
Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot

yet your butterfly was a grub. This Marcius is grown

An't please you, sir, to undertake the business for
Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive and cog,
YORK:
ISABELLA:
Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is,
CLARENCE:
And when mine oratory grew to an end
That gives not half so great a blow to hear
me!

Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
Didst thou not kill this king?
Even with the stroke and line of his great justice:
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
Is that she is intolerable curst
But that the sea, mounting to the welkin's cheek,
LUCIO:
Soft! who comes here?
LUCIO:
To bury mine intents, but also to effect
The cockerel.
For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure;


The violent fit o' the time craves it as physic
Proceed in justice, which shall have due course,
Or of the deadly seven, it is the least.
Your brother is a forfeit of the law,
For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.
Thy deed, inhuman and unnatural,

Is my master and his wife coming, Grumio?
Prove as successful to the queen,--O be't so!--
Congeal'd with this, do make me wipe off both.
LUCENTIO:
Ensuing dangers; as by proof, we see
on't: before Corioli he scotched him and notched
A natural guiltiness such as is his,
Assemble presently the people hither;

Second Watchman:
First Lord:
Stand up, stand up; stand, and you be a man:
HORTENSIO:
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,
I know she is come to pray for your foul sin.

MENENIUS:
Now, sir, is your name Menenius?


Are you so formal, sir? well, I must wait,
But thine doth fry.
But is your grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?
Then vail your stomachs, for it is no boot,

PETRUCHIO:
That age, ache, penury and imprisonment
I am for thee straight: take thou the
I say, a husband.
GRUMIO:

KING RICHARD II:

The doubt is that he will seduce the rest.
Which now bear evidence against my soul,

And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
'Ay, by gogs-wouns,' quoth he; and swore so loud,
Were he my brother, nay, my kingdom's heir,
CLARENCE:
Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus,
Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.

To undertake the death of all the world,
KING RICHARD II:
JULIET:

Where the infectious pestilence did reign,


Ere't be disburden'd with a liberal tongue.


He be as miserably slain as I.
To her, Kate!
Fear not, Baptista; we will content you, go to: but

Satisfy!
Above an hour, my lord.

O general,
It toucheth you, my lord, as much as me.

TRANIO:
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
ISABELLA:


Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither,
Are clamorous groans, which strike upon my heart,
Bring forth the gallant, let us hear him speak.

SAMPSON:
Apothecary:

you from dishonour in doing it.
And so farewell. Katharina, you may stay;
Subject his coronet to his crown and bend
Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
And know how we proceed.
A private whisper, no, not with such friends
Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm;
Though there the people had more absolute power,
By lack of stooping,--
Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee,

And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
O, God ye god-den.
ESCALUS:
COMINIUS:

FRIAR LAURENCE:
With some few bands of chosen soldiers,


ELBOW:
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
ROMEO:
PETRUCHIO:
Or Cytherea's breath; pale primroses
But in the other's silence do I see
LADY MONTAGUE:
That Ancus Marcius, Numa's daughter's son,
Letters should not be known; riches, poverty,
Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
together, and fast it fairly out: our cakes dough on
To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
So we, well cover'd with the night's black mantle,
I cannot nor I will not yield to you.

Second Citizen:

To old Baptista as a schoolmaster
from the world! What corruption in this life, that
must have that thanks from Rome, after the measure
GLOUCESTER:
Upon the stroke of four.
CLARENCE:
Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!

SEBASTIAN:
Why, then I would not fly. Ah, Montague,
With a swain's wearing, and me, poor lowly maid,
Alas, I look'd when some of you should say,
Tread on the sand; why, there you quickly sink:
Were in your love a whip to me; my stay
I' the absence of the needer.
Forgetting any other home but this.
KING EDWARD IV:
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
separation of their society, their encounters,

Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
HASTINGS:
I swear I will not die to-day for any man's
My country's good with a respect more tender,
Juliet, the county stays.
SOMERSET:
PRINCE:
I wis your grandam had a worser match.
Lord:

It shall go hard if Cambio go without her.
Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
And do him right that, answering one foul wrong,
All must be even in our government.
Third Servant:
Your Coriolanus

Unless good counsel may the cause remove.

God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
Afore me! it is so very very late,
The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept:
So please you, let me now be left alone,
SAMPSON:
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
Why

Whereof the king my brother stood possess'd.
Yes, mercy, if you report him truly.
With daily prayers all to that effect.
Many and hearty thankings to you both.
The hand was fair before! I have put you out:
JULIET:
Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne
AUFIDIUS:
True ornaments to know a holy man.
Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home,
I will prove so, sir, to my power.
By the vow of mine order I warrant you, if my
Accursed be he that seeks to make them foes!
Noble Menenius,
He would not call me son.
Obedience bids I should not bid again.
is, even till the altitude of his virtue.

Such as I love; and you, among the store,
Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
With us to break his neck.
The deputy elected by the Lord:

craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.
That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
Makes me most forward in this noble presence

But Tuesday night last gone in's garden-house
saving your honour's reverence, for stewed prunes;
I must believe my master; else, I promise you,
Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence,
Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
I sin in envying his nobility,
ROMEO:

Did utter forth a voice. Yes, thou must die:
And in the brunt of seventeen battles since

What says he?
BIONDELLO:
Here, most gracious liege.
But thus his simple truth must be abused
life, for then we are sure they are true.
And perish constant fools. Who is't can blame him?
Dull thing, I say so; he, that Caliban





HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
EXTON:
Resolve thee, Richard; claim the English crown.


HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

And from this testimony of your own sex,--
Your actions are my dreams;
Are not thine own so proper as to waste

To-morrow, or next day, they will be here.
Speak thou for me and tell them what I did.
The setting sun, and music at the close,
GLOUCESTER:

To no apparent likelihood of breach,

And let their heirs, God, if thy will be so.
God save your grace! I do beseech your majesty,

words plain, 'Sirrah, knock me here, rap me here,
By those that know the very nerves of state,



Peace, sirrah!

Would you enforce me to a world of care?
By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
To-morrow then belike shall be the day,
I care not.
Successively from age to age, he built it?
Thou slewest my husband Henry in the Tower,
No, not that name was given me at the font,
QUEEN MARGARET:
WARWICK:
Yet I wish, sir,--
Turn this way, Henry, and regard them not.

Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat?
MARCIUS:
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
If any such be here--as God forbid!--
Therefore, no more but this: Henry, your sovereign,
ROMEO:

PERDITA:

good voice, sir; what say you?
Than to rejoice the former queen is well?
Servant:
To have the heir of the Lord Hungerford.
And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it.
For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,
big enough; if it be too big for your thief, your

Words, life and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
Ah, froward Clarence! how evil it beseems thee
Yet you are wither'd.
First Murderer:

GREMIO:


When I'll depose I had him in mine arms
When you depart from him, but, soft and low,
best sheep, which I fear the wolf will sooner find
Unlikely wonders; how these vain weak nails
YORK:
Whose father slew my father, he shall die.
Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are.
And that unhappy king, my master, whom
Stanley, look to your wife; if she convey
Great Apollo


ESCALUS:
Than your own weak-hinged fancy, something savours
On the curl'd clouds, to thy strong bidding task
And, sir, it is no little thing to make

I fear me both are false.
An if I live until I be a man,
Which from the vineyard to the garden leads;
EXETER:
There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,
VINCENTIO:
clog at his heels: if I thought it were a piece of
When he wakes! why, fool, he shall never wake till
These news I must confess are full of grief;

How now, fair shepherd!
That which I shall report will bear no credit,
Lord:
perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
One of these days; and then you'ld wanton with us,
Second Huntsman:
No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
Your liberties and the charters that you bear

To horse, to horse! urge doubts to them that fear.
Use careful watch, choose trusty sentinels.
Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you
Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love;
Nurse:
Fourth Citizen:
Together working with thy jealousies,
Nay, I'll conjure too.
And you were Isabel! should it then be thus?
And as the air blows it to me again,

Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
BIONDELLO:
And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart
And serve it thus to me that love it not?
ELBOW:
BIANCA:
Your children's children quit it in your age.
O, true-bred!

Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Began to scold and raise up such a storm

To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool

SLY:
And better used, would make her sainted spirit
Froth, I would not have you acquainted with
KING EDWARD IV:

Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds:
Making them women of good carriage:

Lieutenant:
the meeting of the two kings?

Must I go show them my unbarbed sconce?
Marcius,
I'll be at charges for a looking-glass,
God bless thee; and put meekness in thy mind,
That shake not, though they blow perpetually.
HENRY PERCY:
BALTHASAR:
Meet on the market-place. We'll attend you there:
Or hew my way out with a bloody axe.
KING LEWIS XI:
ROMEO:
My gracious lord, Henry your foe is taken,

HASTINGS:
Never crave him; we are definitive.
For he fears none.
And yet the steer, the heifer and the calf
And wear it as a favour; and with that

Good Catesby, go, effect this business soundly.
Dear brother, how shall Bona be revenged

'Tis death to me to be at enmity;
WARWICK:

Alack, and what shall good old York there see

That would divorce this terror from my heart;'
But if your title to the crown be weak,
Sir, my gracious lord,
The aediles, ho!
Look you, sir, here is the hand and seal of the
CORIOLANUS:
Till one can do no more.
Once more, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.


Blind with the pin and web but theirs, theirs only,

WARWICK:

The blessed gods
This prison where I live unto the world:
ROMEO:
QUEEN:
BENVOLIO:
Thou wilt perform my bidding.
And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
GLOUCESTER:
And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life,
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
By his great authority;
Go to Flint castle: there I'll pine away;
Long mayst thou live to wail thy children's loss;
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?

should be hanged, I cannot imagine.
POMPEY:
No worse than I, upon some agreement
Thou canst not, son; it is impossible.

That e'er I put between your holy looks
For standing by when Richard stabb'd her son.

MONTAGUE:
The common muck of the world: he covets less
And pass my daughter a sufficient dower,
A traitor to his God, his king and him;
O pity, pity, gentle heaven, pity!

Come pentecost as quickly as it will,
Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
First Citizen:
CORIOLANUS:
What studied torments, tyrant, hast for me?

But, Warwick,

And make poor England weep in streams of blood!
That's off, that's off;
ANTIGONUS:
And seeing thou dost, I here divorce myself
And all those friends that deign to follow me.
I am his brother, and I love him well.
Than are upon you yet.
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams;
with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer

A mark so bloody on the business, but
To her allowing husband!
And reason coldly of your grievances,
LARTIUS:

Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,

The gods have well prevented it, and Rome
Canst thou believe thy living is a life,
Which in the time of death he gave our father.
SLY:
To the vulgar eye, that he bears all things fairly.
QUEEN:
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
Why, then they are not dead:

PARIS:
BRAKENBURY:
Where are your mess of sons to back you now?
GLOUCESTER:
CLIFFORD:
First Murderer:

bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker?
If any think brave death outweighs bad life
Command these fretting waters from your eyes
How say you, Signior Gremio?
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
A cause for thy repeal, we shall not send

That reacheth from the restful English court
Henceforward I am ever ruled by you.

VOLUMNIA:

QUEEN MARGARET:
Patience, I pray you; 'twas a fault unwilling.
How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
and the bear mocked him, both roaring louder than

This is All-Souls' day, fellows, is it not?
Petruchio, stand by a while.
BARNARDINE:
Our greatest friends attend us.


What?
This but begins the woe, others must end.
Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
And, when thou wed'st, let sorrow haunt thy bed;


Of every wind that blows.
Be confident to speak, Northumberland:
That, if this rule were true, he should be gracious.
PETER:
And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.
Had squared me to thy counsel! then, even now,
GLOUCESTER:
And a petition granted them, a strange one--
PARIS:
CORIOLANUS:
We are, my lord; and come to have the warrant
Nay! prithee, woman,--
greater soldier.
To crop at once a too long wither'd flower.
Well, sir.

Welcome, my lords. I wot your love pursues
Take you the lute, and you the set of books;
And sends allegiance and true faith of heart
POLIXENES:
MIRANDA:
So looks the pent-up lion o'er the wretch
O, you are novices! 'tis a world to see,
And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
thee!' and by the operation of the second cup draws

When he might spurn him with his foot away?
Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't
Who crown'd the gracious duke in high despite,
First Citizen:
Here let us breathe and haply institute
Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you
Where is that damned villain Tranio,
And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
As, walk'd your first queen's ghost,


Methought he bore him in the thickest troop
She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,

Wafting his eyes to the contrary and falling
And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down:
And both are ready in their offices,
This is a merry ballad, but a very pretty one.

How far is it to Berkeley? and what stir
Within these three hours, Tullus,
From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!
Or any other ground inhabitable,
PETRUCHIO:
HERMIONE:
Your honour with your form.

In our first way.
Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius!
When they are gone, then must I count my gains.
As one unworthy all the former favours

Not only my success in Libya, sir,
Haled out to murder: myself on every post
custom-shrunk.
Help Marcius, help,
Second Senator:



Feeling so the loss,
Say you can swim; alas, 'tis but a while!
Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,
My crown I am; but still my griefs are mine:
AUTOLYCUS:
I know not whether to depart in silence,
Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.
Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
'I would he had'! 'Twas you incensed the rabble:
Where slept our scouts, or how are they seduced,
Master, it is no time to chide you now;

Out of hope of all, but my share of the feast.
By the blood we have shed together, by the vows
But in the loss of question,--that you, his sister,
You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin;

Nor never by advised purpose meet

RICHARD:
Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
In prenzie guards! Dost thou think, Claudio?
They're busy within; you were best knock louder.
Sinfully pluck'd, and not a man of you
The king hath straitly charged the contrary.
Here pitch our battle; hence we will not budge.
the palsied intercession of such a decayed dotant as
I may not suffer you to visit them;
JULIET:
CLARENCE:
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
Why linger we? let us lay hands upon him.
question asked him by any of the senators, but they
The instruments that feel.
Good night.
Lest I revenge. What, myself upon myself?
WARWICK:
Well, he may chance to do some good on her:

How! turn thy back and run?
on crutches till he had one.
Untouch'd, or slightly handled, in discourse
LEONTES:

Or what you will command me will I do,

And next his throat unto the butcher's knife.
Lest you shall chance to whip your information
Who saw the sun to-day?


My lord, cheer up your spirits: our foes are nigh,
FERDINAND:
A shepherd's daughter.
that they cannot at ease on the old bench? O, their
under the hangman: which though it be great pity,
That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword,
What love, think'st thou, I sue so much to get?
Before his sister should her body stoop

Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?

O earth, which this blood drink'st revenge his death!
Citizens:

Your ships are stay'd at Venice, and the duke,
I know not, an't like you.
That faced and braved me in this matter so?

For now the devil, that told me I did well,

SICINIUS:
KING HENRY VI:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
From flowery tenderness? If I must die,
Take hands, a bargain!
Here's ado,
CLARENCE:

GONZALO:

Whence are you, sir? what may I call your name?
How! caught of me!

fly?
As surely as I live, my lord.
ESCALUS:
To men in joy; but grief makes one hour ten.

of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he


It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.



ESCALUS:
So other foes may set upon our backs.
Do your will.
ESCALUS:
I have some wounds upon me, and they smart
country, Sicilia, prithee speak no more; whose very
Yes, brother, you may live:
And what to her adheres, which follows after,
The tears have got small victory by that;

BAPTISTA:
O, good sir, softly, good sir! I fear, sir, my
And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life.
With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls;

Clown:
First Senator:
of brown thread: I said a gown.
No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.

With other muniments and petty helps
She is spread of late
So much to my good comfort, as it is
The Roman ladies bring not comfort home,
That I have worn so many winters out,


She it is.
HASTINGS:
Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
Inquire me out some mean-born gentleman,
AUTOLYCUS:

A daughter, and a goodly babe,
Ha! am I king? 'tis so: but Edward lives.
That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch:
I lay it naked to the deadly stroke,
settled only in rogue: some call him Autolycus.
It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
KING HENRY VI:

And do thee favours with my royal hands.
CATESBY:
For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.
A man of their infirmity.
Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
Streaming the ensign of the Christian cross
Advance thy halbert higher than my breast,
Thy beauty hath, and made them blind with weeping.
In Italy, and her confederate arms,
No, sir, God forbid; but ashamed to kiss.
More learned than the ears--waving thy head,
A crack, madam.
GLOUCESTER:
Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will,
Ne'er spurr'd their coursers at the trumpet's sound;
What is the matter, my lord?
A wise stout captain, and soon persuaded!

All for our vantage. Then, in God's name, march:

I think she'll sooner prove a soldier
The queen is valued thirty thousand strong,
Made me acquainted with a weighty cause
LUCIO:
CAPULET:
SICINIUS:
And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
MERCUTIO:
JULIET:
That, had he twenty heads to tender down
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother


Or as thy father and his father did,

Had you such leisure in the time of death
Then let the earth be drunken with our blood:
The night-crow cried, aboding luckless time;
Which by my presence might have been concluded.
ANTONIO:
Third Citizen:
And utter ruin of the house of York.
Her mother is the lady of the house,
QUEEN:
Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
His country's bowels out. And to poor we
I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close.
To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
Would tempt unto a close exploit of death?
There was a yielding,--this admits no excuse.
First Senator:
Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:

And this shall free thee from this present shame;
Than can our reasons. There's no man in the world
May not one speak?
GREMIO:
Assay the power you have.
much in request, for the old women were all dead.
Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool
Hath not that honour in't it had; for where
True, when avoided grace makes destiny:
Third Citizen:
I shall attend your leisure: but make haste;
To oppose his hatred fully. Welcome home.
NORFOLK:
Such it seems
me; I will neither be faced nor braved. I say unto
I'll blush you thanks.
And shows good husbandry for the Volscian state,
Alas, I am not coop'd here for defence!


GREMIO:
Eating the bitter bread of banishment;
Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord,
Commit the war of white and damask in
Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself,
Are they not now upon the western shore.
Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say
FLORIZEL:
Second Servingman:

CAMILLO:
I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.


Thou know'st our reasons urged upon the way;
Cats, that can judge as fitly of his worth
To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
POLIXENES:
Must I then do't to them?
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside
As it were sin to doubt--that love this painting
Provost:
To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you;
Two Cliffords, as the father and the son,
Jog on, jog on, the foot-path way,
Sir, he may live:
But saying o'er what I have said before:

First Murderer:
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up,
SICINIUS:
Yes, Warwick, I remember it to my grief;
Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!

By sight of what I have, your noble company.
Here to make good the boisterous late appeal,
Sirrah, go you to Barthol'mew my page,

To have him match'd; and if you please to like
the sea or weather.
Pedant:
Who is it?
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

That laid the sentence of dread banishment
KING RICHARD II:


care; so far that I have eyes under my service which

And hither have they sent it for her ransom.
Than the rebuke you give it.

What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
Plaster you o'er, that you may be abhorr'd
Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,
Girl:

death: you know the course is common. If any thing
Be bride to you, if you this assurance;
What, ho! Abhorson! Where's Abhorson, there?
Who can be patient in such extremes?
Against a falling fabric. Will you hence,
Persuades when speaking fails.
KATHARINA:
And I wish, my liege,
ARIEL:
CORIOLANUS:



That I, forsooth, am stern, and love them not?
LADY GREY:
Ay, but yet

When you have vow'd, you must not speak with men
Look forward on the journey you shall go.

And water cannot wash away your sin.
And when the morning sun shall raise his car
would make it flame again: for the nobles receive
What, canst not rule her?
With a nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant

And weakling, Warwick takes his gift again;
Then at my lodging, an it like you:
As Priam was for all his valiant sons.
Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners
We are to speak in public; for this business
Ay, every dram of woman's flesh is false, If she be.
Provost:
As Anna to the queen of Carthage was,
HORTENSIO:
If you head and hang all that offend that way but
KING RICHARD II:
As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
KING HENRY VI:
Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in
Lo, here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword;
He is not guilty of her coming hither.
With nothing trembles: at some thing it grieves,
A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day,
Third Gentleman:
Yes. Has he affections in him,
A match! 'tis done.
WARWICK:
COMINIUS:
Spur post, and get before him to the king,
QUEEN:
To thee I pray; sweet Clifford, pity me!

Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it.
Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman.
Shall witness to him I am near at home,
by your hearing: all the peace you make in their
I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
Who's that which calls?

Each one demand an answer to his part
Go on, go on

To stop the inundation of her tears;
Nay, do not pause; for I did kill King Henry,
Mi perdonato, gentle master mine,
Till you have heard me in my true complaint
SICINIUS:
Call it a travel that thou takest for pleasure.
If you do fight in safeguard of your wives,
the right: but to the point. As I say, this
Irons of a doit, doublets that hangmen would
And I resign my gage. My dear dear lord,
What wrong is this unto the prince your son!
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
Where's Captain Margaret, to fence you now?
You, gracious couple, do: and then I lost--
Not of a woman's tenderness to be,
To monarchize, be fear'd and kill with looks,
I pray you, do not push me; I'll be gone.
advised him for the entertainment of death.
No, say'st me so, friend? What countryman?
CAMILLO:
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?

I prithee, call't. For this ungentle business
How now, good fellow! why shakest thou so? Fear
Pray, be counsell'd:

And therein show'd like enemies.


Yet let us all together to our troops,
Welcome, good Clarence; this is brotherlike.

KATHARINA:

BRUTUS:
ELBOW:
WARWICK:
That Edward is escaped from your brother,

No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I

Knowing by Paulina that the oracle
Mistress Elbow, being, as I say, with child, and
Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf
There is an art which in their piedness shares
Even with such life of majesty, warm life,
Harry Bolingbroke doth humbly kiss thy hand;
BUCKINGHAM:
KING EDWARD IV:

DUKE VINCENTIO:
If so, then be not tongue-tied: go with me.
ELBOW:
LEONTES:

JULIET:
But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines


Were factious for the house of Lancaster;
O princely Buckingham I'll kiss thy hand,

LADY CAPULET:
Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:

Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
third--borough.

enforce them against him: we shall find this friar a
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
And most desire should meet the blow of justice;
Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit-trees,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
If it be so, out with it boldly, man;
Madest quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne.
Would they else be content to die?
It rested in your grace
BRUTUS:

They are already, or quickly will be landed:
Had he been slain, we should have heard the news;
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
Clown:
Caesar to you; in plain dealing, Pompey, I shall

Second Servingman:


How fares my noble lord?
Near twenty years ago, in Genoa,
shall use me hereafter, drybeat the rest of the
And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt:
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy

So much his friend, ay, his unfeigned friend,
Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man;

That idles in the wanton summer air,
open thy affair.

Made prize and purchase of his lustful eye,
Provost:

KING RICHARD III:
The flattering index of a direful pageant;
Places remote enough are in Bohemia,
Tailor:
PAULINA:
This is unlikely:
For I can here disarm thee with this stick
DUCHESS OF YORK:
A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.
Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness
NORTHUMBERLAND:

FRIAR LAURENCE:

By holy Paul, they love his grace but lightly
Spurr'd, gall'd and tired by jouncing Bolingbroke.
And try your penitence, if it be sound,
He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.
Where is the enemy? are you lords o' the field?
BRUTUS:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
And have prepared great store of wedding cheer;
As will a chestnut in a farmer's fire?

I mean thou shalt, we'll bar thee from succession;
shall I be appointed hours; as though, belike, I

their queen.
no, not for dwelling where you do: if I do, Pompey,
See this dispatch'd with all the haste thou canst:
Gives in your weakness strength unto your foe,

Indeed, I am no mourner for that news,
And beg your pardon: pardon, I beseech you!

Till Norfolk be repeal'd: repeal'd he shall be,
To free King Henry from imprisonment

My voice is now the king's, my looks mine own.
That outward courtesies would fain proclaim
Pronounce thee a gross lout, a mindless slave,
To plant unrightful kings, wilt know again,

I am sorry, one so learned and so wise
Would feed on one another? What's their seeking?
Nurse:
Norfolk, throw down, we bid; there is no boot.
When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief:
Shall, for that vast of night that they may work,
Our archers shall be placed in the midst
Now, sister, let us hear your firm resolve.
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
Say, then: 'tis true, I ought so.
To give or to forgive; but when we have stuff'd

Nay, but thou shalt stay too: I would my son
Let have needful, but not lavish, means;
'Tribunes!' 'Patricians!' 'Citizens!' 'What, ho!'
HERMIONE:
Fly hence, and leave me: think upon these gone;
Are you in earnest, sir?
I have not stopp'd mine ears to their demands,
This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.
And all my pains is sorted to no proof.


I know they do; and I have well deserved it.
Abase foul stone, made precious by the foil
Dine with my father, drink a health to me;
To be so rid o' the business.
That stabb'd me in the field by Tewksbury;
First Watchman:
My manors, rents, revenues I forego;
How durst you, villains, bring it from the dresser,
Nay, it is ten times strange.
he'll be made an example.

GLOUCESTER:

The best and wholesomest spirts of the night
Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts
So many summers dry; scarce any joy
Vilely bound up? What would he say? Or how


Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
PETER:
To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain
SOMERSET:
KING RICHARD II:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
What advocate hast thou to him?
No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
The dibble in earth to set one slip of them;
For well I wot ye blaze to burn them out
QUEEN:
Still your own foes, deliver you as most
You are too senseless--obstinate, my lord,
you and pray with you.
SICINIUS:
Second Gentleman:
GLOUCESTER:
Perhaps thy childishness will move him more
But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
Now, sir, to you.
If they were his assistants, yea or no;
is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.
I'll draw it as apparent to the crown,
GREMIO:

His deeds with doing them, and is content
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
God save your honour!
LUCIO:
Assist me, Tranio, for I know thou wilt.

Remit thy other forfeits. Take him to prison;
VOLUMNIA:
time has yet to come that she was ever respected
BAPTISTA:
I do not sue to stand;
Second Murderer:

We cannot keep the town.
Of my lord's tricks and yours when you were boys:
Well, Petruchio, this has put me in heart.

That I myself have done unto myself?
QUEEN MARGARET:
You may be jogging whiles your boots are green;
MERCUTIO:
I will follow you.
Which live like venom where no venom else
But beg one favour at thy gracious hand,
There's many a gentle person made a Jack.
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
strawberries.
KING RICHARD III:

And this my neighbour too?
Thieves for their robbery have authority
O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye
PETRUCHIO:

More than the nature of a brother's love!
to the determination of justice: yet had he framed
GLOUCESTER:
MENENIUS:
I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
O Ratcliff, I have dream'd a fearful dream!
PROSPERO:
KING EDWARD IV:
Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst

Why will you mew her up,
Ay.
That his chief followers lodge in towns about him,
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
That with such vehemency he should pursue
feelingly now?
Lord Angelo is severe.
O God, she comes!

It is fifteen years since I saw my country: though
I'll send him certain word of my success.
Whose children he hath slain, their base throats tear
A visor for a visor! what care I
Our people and our peers are both misled,
NATHANIEL:
Against us brats, with no less confidence
Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas,

Showing, as in a model, our firm estate,

Shalt feel our justice, in whose easiest passage
Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
GLOUCESTER:
But it proceeds or comes from them to you

Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,
Why, he that wears her like a medal, hanging
ESCALUS:

Fare ye well:

I am too sure of it: and it is for getting Madam


Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
Hail to you, provost! so I think you are.
Against my kindred, brothers, and myself,
A place below the first: for what miscarries
My best beloved and approved friend,
BENVOLIO:
I will not reason what is meant hereby,
A bawd, sir? fie upon him! he will discredit our mystery.
Adjudged an olive branch and laurel crown,
Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?

That you in pity may dissolve to dew,


And therefore, if you say no more than this,
GLOUCESTER:
May show her duty and make known her love?'
FRIAR LAURENCE:
Pedant:
Shall ill become the flower of England's face,
LADY CAPULET:

But I'll acquaint our duteous citizens
That makes his opening with this bigger key:
My charity is outrage, life my shame
Than pity to our prayers. Down: an end;
For time hath set a blot upon my pride.
KING HENRY VI:
FROTH:
To do me business in the veins o' the earth
CLAUDIO:
I will stand betwixt you and danger.
That we may praise thee in the victory!
MARIANA:
Unto my brother, Archbishop of York.
O, well-a-day, that ever I was born!
That shall not be much amiss: Yet, as the matter
No ceremony that to great ones 'longs,
Now is the winter of our discontent
'Tis most like he will.

To part the queen's proud kindred from the king.
BRUTUS:
I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell;
Bid me farewell.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
But do not break your oaths; for of that sin
Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour,
But had he died in the business, madam; how then?

To the people! Coriolanus, patience!
Then dreams, he of another benefice:
I charge you see that he be forthcoming.

And yet so fast asleep.
Or shall we on without a apology?

Where he abides.
The same you are not, which, for your best ends,
He that retires I'll take him for a Volsce,
Even to their ships.
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
As shall become your highness; where you may

Conformable as other household Kates.
Why?
How ceremonious, solemn and unearthly
You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me:
GLOUCESTER:
I'll know
The statue is but newly fix'd, the colour's Not dry.

Real necessities, and give way the while
And thou shalt still remain the Duke of York.
To trash for over-topping, new created
Yes, my good lord,
KING RICHARD II:
Looks on alike. Will't please you, sir, be gone?
Is the argument of Time. Of this allow,

But, for your son,--believe it, O, believe it,

DUKE VINCENTIO:
ROMEO:
ABHORSON:
LUCENTIO:
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
This is true that I say: an I had thee
Their kingdom's loss, my woful banishment,
Thy garments are not spotted with our blood,

Each one already blazing by our meeds,
The rest stand all aloof, and bark at him.

Hear'st thou, Mars?
Hold up your hands, say nothing; I'll speak all.
More than to Richmond?  for the selfsame heaven
This mould of Marcius, they to dust should grind it
But, as you will not wed, I'll pardon you:
And lo, where George of Clarence sweeps along,
Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as
RICHMOND:

Hew down and fell the hardest-timber'd oak.
Spoke like an officer; ha' to thee, lad!
O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
The Volscians are dislodged, and Marcius gone:
The happy tidings of his good escape.
CLAUDIO:
Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you
He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth



SICINIUS:
I do desire to learn, sir: and I hope, if you have
Your horror's pardon:
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
And cry 'O Clarence, my unhappy son!'
Then, for his mind, be Edward England's king:
Those many had not dared to do that evil,
MIRANDA:
Then this is mine opinion: that King Lewis
MENENIUS:
ROMEO:
And would by combat make her good, so were I
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
Make haste; the hour of death is expiate.
Praise her but for this her without-door form,
With what thou else call'st thine. If thou refuse
GLOUCESTER:
For she is sweeter than perfume itself
Here is the cap your worship did bespeak.
There is a prone and speechless dialect,
And in this resolution here we leave you.--
Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry.
ANTIGONUS:

Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a woman
Perpetual durance?
Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Wretches so quake: they kneel, they kiss the earth;
This, my lord.
MERCUTIO:
KING RICHARD III:
jerkin, a pair of old breeches thrice turned, a pair



As that the sin hath brought you to this shame,
Against infection and the hand of war,
Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
Should die for ever.
You must, as we do, gratify this gentleman,

O slow-wing'd turtle! shall a buzzard take thee?

Plainly conceive, I love you.
NURSE:
MENENIUS:
Could you not have told him
I dare not, sir
Woe to the land that's govern'd by a child!
Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,

My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your majesty.
Yea, and forswore himself,--which Jesu pardon!--
The gods begin to mock me. I, that now
And consequently, like a traitor coward,
OXFORD:
3 KING HENRY VI
CLIFFORD:
Resolve my doubt. You twain, of all the rest,
KING RICHARD II:

Ay, so I did indeed.
Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's
For mercy to his country. Therefore, let's hence,
So would you be again to Henry,
Have I not in a pitched battle heard
Mark what I say, which you shall find

When dying clouds contend with growing light,
Roundly replied.
POMPEY:
ANGELO:


Hark you, sir: I'll have them very fairly bound:

Return again, and take an oath with thee.
Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?
from man to dragon: he has wings; he's more than a
'Tis in my head to do my master good:
Iron of Naples hid with English gilt,
And dull to all proceedings. A deflower'd maid!
And with my child my joys are buried.
true descent;
Turn all to the best! These proclamations,
CLARENCE:
Show them the unaching scars which I should hide,

Found truth in all but one: I, in twelve thousand, none.

While you, sweet dear, prove mistress of my heart!
Servant:
to find you out there: you have well saved me a
What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,

So many hours must I contemplate;

Then I must not say no.
I kill'd a man and fear I was descried:
Go you to him from me.
She would to each one sip. You are retired,
O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
Tell her, Emilia.
QUEEN MARGARET:
That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death.
Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow.
Think what you will, we seize into our hands
Provost:
My elder brother, the Lord Aubrey Vere,
Fellow Grumio!
Hasting to the court.
When holy Harry died, and my sweet son.
For who is living, if those two are gone?
hangs a tale.
There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,

Old wither'd plants, to wail it with their age.
The ministers for the purpose hurried thence

Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.
Farewell.
Dispatch it presently; the hour draws on
Who I do think is mine and love as mine,

Clown:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.
Hath sometime loved! I take thy hand, this hand,
Second Gentleman:
That, as I am a Christian faithful man,
One that gives out himself Prince Florizel,
Vouchsafe, at our request, to stand aside,


Why stops my lord, shall I not hear my task?
Cry woe, destruction, ruin and decay:

Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
In murders and in outrage, boldly here;
That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
PETRUCHIO:
No longer session hold upon my shame,
Had left no mourning widows for our death;

Advance your standards, draw your willing swords.
Deserves the extremest death.
DUCHESS OF YORK:
The augurer tells me we shall have news to-night.


That won you without blows! Despising,
First Servingman:
From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit:
A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get him
Give me some ink and paper.
CLARENCE:
KING EDWARD IV:
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse!
RICHARD:
His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.


DUKE VINCENTIO:
Senators:
fellow. Has he any unbraided wares?
ISABELLA:
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
Some consequence yet hanging in the stars

Dabbled in blood; and he squeak'd out aloud,
Thou hast a grim appearance, and thy face
PROSPERO:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
ROMEO:
order of law a furred gown to keep him warm; and
Not at all, good lady:
A dire induction am I witness to,
Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course,
Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he
KING RICHARD III:
His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain,
Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!
How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
MARIANA:
O then, belike, you fancy riches more:
WARWICK:

Well, your imprisonment shall not be long;
They shall be praying nuns, not weeping queens;


I wish no better
Indeed, la, 'tis a noble child.

As if they vow'd some league inviolable:
secrets, but you must be tittle-tattling before all
And now to London all the crew are gone,
Before I positively herein:
TRANIO:
And I, that haply take them from him now,
with the fashions, full of wingdalls, sped with
Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
Abides in me; I say amen to all.

VIRGILIA:
Go, bid thy master rise and come to me
'This general applause and loving shout
What with him? he comes not
You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain;


And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what; yet go:
JULIET:
MIRANDA:

picture; and what I saw, to my good use I

I know it is the moon.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
would take her with all faults, and money enough.
When holy and devout religious men
Come, shall we go?
We have made to endure friends, that you directly
She came adorned hither like sweet May,
As one that are best acquainted with her humour.
Where is he wounded?
His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest;
Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
Seduced the pitch and height of all his thoughts
But felt a fever of the mad and play'd
to hear it.
That, were my state far worser than it is,
BRUTUS:
Lord Angelo hath to the public ear
Second Citizen:
His nurse! why, she was dead ere thou wert born.

Now put it, God, in the physician's mind
Your husband so much sweat. Cominius,

QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
customers. First, here's young Master Rash; he's in
Bid them home:
Tush, that was in thy rage:
TYBALT:
HORTENSIO:

RICHARD:
Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
As he's reported by this gentleman;

In that I live and for that will I die.
The poorest service is repaid with thanks;
CORIOLANUS:
Would sing her song and dance her turn; now here,
GRUMIO:
I'll tell him what you say, my lord.
That ne'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown.
So forcing faults upon Hermione,

Like to a chaos, or an unlick'd bear-whelp
Lord Mayor:

Alexander. What he bids be done is finished with


For Richard, in the view of many lords,



For exile hath more terror in his look,
That like nor peace nor war? the one affrights you,

Rather than envy you.
Than shame to the Romans: and we here deliver,
Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
Nurse:
Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bones
QUEEN ELIZABETH:

Or, if you show your face, you must not speak.
Wept like two children in their deaths' sad stories.
Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
Nay, I have offer'd all, I have no more;

He were as much more villain: you, my lord,
seemed sorrow wept to take leave of them, for their
Environed with all these hideous fears?
No? you say your husband.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
I never long'd to hear a word till now;
'Tis time to speak; my pains are quite forgot.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And hum at good Cominius, much unhearts me.
The news I have to tell your majesty


Who from my cabin tempted me to walk
I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with
Blush that the world goes well, who rather had,
In our well-found successes, to report
Where every horse bears his commanding rein,
This is fairy gold, boy, and 'twill prove so: up
Of Bolingbroke: their fortunes both are weigh'd:
Towards our assistance we do seize to us
And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two
Behold this pattern of thy butcheries.
SEBASTIAN:

NORTHUMBERLAND:
True; save means to live.
In stamps that are forbid: 'tis all as easy
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
Of dear import, and the neglecting it
When, Harry, when?
Mum.
FRIAR PETER:
Which now, two tender playfellows to dust,

BRUTUS:
to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I loved thy brother:
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity--
I will be very kind, and liberal
First Murderer:
beginning.

LUCENTIO:
At his house this night.

I'ld throw it down for your deliverance
Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius
BIANCA:

When you should bring the plaster.
With Romeo, till I behold him--dead--
For 'tis thy presence that exhales this blood
Even so
Repair to the senate-house.
And now forthwith shall articles be drawn

Forswear themselves as often as they speak:
First, he commends him to your noble lordship.
have fought with the men, I will be cruel with the
YORK:
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
BAPTISTA:
Take't up, I say; give't to thy crone.


BLUNT:

DUKE VINCENTIO:
Away, you fool! it more becomes a man
Be you beneath the sky.
I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years
a commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in
Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
I dare not stand by; nor shall you be safer
Why, sir, he comes not.
And bring thy news so late?

As who should say, if I should sleep or eat,
Will I lend ear to. Ha! what shout is this?
GREMIO:
Than one on's ears to hear it? Proceed, Cominius.
LADY ANNE:

CLAUDIO:
I saw them at the prison: a saucy friar,
meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as
Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster!
Torment myself to catch the English crown:
For they that were your enemies are his,
What's to do here, Thomas tapster? let's withdraw.
Do climate here! You have a holy father,

MENENIUS:
I wish I had a cause to seek him there,
MENENIUS:
My father's bears more toward the market-place;
These violent delights have violent ends
RIVERS:
Will touch us all too near, if God prevent not.
Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man:
A human shape.
For how I firmly am resolved you know;

Is colder than that theme, 'She had not been,
Here must I stay, and here my life must end.
If you know aught which does behove my knowledge
Whipt first, sir, and hanged after.
Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions:
Richard, I will create thee Duke of Gloucester,
I cannot help it now,
Is too much for a score,

PAULINA:
Take your commission; hie you to your bands:
SICINIUS:
Their loud applause and Aves vehement;
So thrive I, as I truly swear the like!


PETRUCHIO:
And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle:

Forbear it therefore; give your cause to heaven.
Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen.
To the corruption of a blemished stock:
I have heard, but not believed,
There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
Of those that lawless and incertain thought

In your condemned seconds.
and vengeance for't
Of that there's none, or little.


CAMILLO:

Make that thy question, and go rot!
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak;

Seeing thou hast proved so unnatural a father
confession, learn to begin thy health; but, whilst I
Tutor:

Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
thou not the air of the court in these enfoldings?
I'll hence forthwith unto the sanctuary,
'Tis torture, and not mercy: heaven is here,
As he had lost some province and a region
Sir, royal sir, forgive a foolish woman:
Why, then he will say we stabbed him sleeping.
Which now mistrust no parcel of my fear,
GREMIO:
CORIOLANUS:

Which by the interpretation of full time
Mended again. The matter; proceed.

And that small model of the barren earth
As I do think, to-morrow.
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
GLOUCESTER:
Else, when he's found, that hour is his last.
MENENIUS:
Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes,
ANGELO:

For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
ROMEO:
on thee, rather than have these off.
Be not her maid, since she is envious;
But, sirs, be sudden in the execution,
He looks like sooth. He says he loves my daughter:
I would thou hadst done so by Claudio.
Master Barnardine! you must rise and be hanged.
Unless another,
POMPEY:

Lady:
Hold; get you gone, be strong and prosperous
PAULINA:
Well, think of marriage now; younger than you,
O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
Shepherd:
CLIFFORD:

Were never orphans had so dear a loss!
It may be so, for it is not mine own.

This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot;
And rob me of a happy mother's name?
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth,
which now shall die in oblivion and thou return

Yet none of you would once plead for his life.
WESTMORELAND:
Now mark me, how I will undo myself;
How could that be?
Since I have set my friends at peace on earth.
If you strike me, you are no gentleman;
O sir, I do; and will repute you ever
That mercy which true prayer ought to have.
I hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!
So her dead likeness, I do well believe,
The trumpet any more. Pray you, Emilia,
PETRUCHIO:
Condemns you to the death. See them deliver'd over
winds. The heavens continue their loves!
Think'st thou that I will leave my kingly throne,
If they have overheard me now, why, hanging.

Our certain death: therefore it is decreed




Nurse:
BRUTUS:
As stooping to relieve him: I not doubt
Why dost thou ask again?
They call him Doricles; and boasts himself


own fingers: therefore he that cannot lick his
KING RICHARD III:
A good demand.
Had loved you as we did.
And her withholds from me and other more,
NORTHUMBERLAND:


Indeed, you shall not.
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
SOMERSET:
The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo,

To choke it in the utterance. So our virtues
Then 'tis but reason that I be released
And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
homely foolery already. I know, sir, we weary you.


death: do not satisfy your resolution with hopes


PRINCE EDWARD:



Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
Than this; which to reiterate were sin
As well assured Richard their king is dead.


Nothing is done to purpose. Therefore, beseech you,--
LORD ROSS:
If you do sweat to put a tyrant down,
LUCENTIO:
I do suspect I have done some offence
Intents but merely thoughts.

All ready; and therefore, I pray thee, news.

The swelling difference of your settled hate:
ROMEO:
Thy Edward he is dead, that stabb'd my Edward:
And when they bear me say 'It shall be so
ESCALUS:

Good heart, at what?
Think you, my lord, this little prating York
No, take more:
In countenance somewhat doth resemble you.
Shall I live on to see this bastard kneel
But the rarity of it is,--which is indeed almost
Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.

I pray you, sir, is it your will
hands. Are they all ready?
Messenger:
By this account then Margaret may win him;
So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
Did you such a thing?
SICINIUS:
Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me;
ISABELLA:
DUKE VINCENTIO:



For both of you are birds of selfsame feather.
Second Murderer:
So long as hell and Richard likes of it.
Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day;

My father's death--
What say'st thou, my dear nurse?

You look as if you held a brow of much distraction
But say, what to thine old news?
KING RICHARD III:
Master, a mercatante, or a pedant,


Once more we sit in England's royal throne,

Something unfilial: reason my son
True, Clifford; and that's Richard Duke of York.



I flamed amazement: sometime I'ld divide,
ANTONIO:
Proceed thus rashly to the villain's death,

HASTINGS:
No more.

HERMIONE:

Made issue from the bosom of the boy;
Seize him, AEdiles!

Are these your herd?
AUTOLYCUS:

Wherein, my friends, have I offended you?
grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with
and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears: he
A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
Son, I have overheard what hath passed between you

From London by the king was I press'd forth;
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
Shall bear along impawn'd, away to-night!
well endeavours to trust to himself and to live
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,
I think 'twill serve, if he
good quarrel, and the law on my side.

That mercy does, for calumny will sear
He dreamt to-night the boar had razed his helm:
I dare be sworn
We have landed in ill time: the skies look grimly


pretty one; a very pretty one: sure, some 'scape:

Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York.
CLARENCE:
What custom wills, in all things should we do't,
LEONTES:
There he must stay until the officer

In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
ones; but they are most of them means and bases; but

At Ravenspurgh.
Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline,

And set the murderous Machiavel to school.

I shall do good.
Here comes the Duke of York.
Which industry and courage might have saved?
And you shall understand from me her mind.

Who made thee, then, a bloody minister,
circumstance: that which you hear you'll swear you

And yet within these five hours lived Lord Hastings,
With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds:
Till we assign you to your days of trial.
Lay it by too: another.
is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain
But, tell me, is young George Stanley living?
VOLUMNIA:
BRUTUS:
Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,
Heir to the crown; meaning indeed his house,
And we shall have more wars before 't be long.
Like to a tenement or pelting farm:
Well, sir, as you guess, as you guess?
Is fair and honest, and in his mistress' name
For it engenders choler, planteth anger;
What was my first? it has an elder sister,
Lusty and like to live: the queen receives
CAPULET:
At the prefixed hour of her waking,
HASTINGS:
answer: thither with all greediness of affection

If he were known alive?
Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste.
Even in the best blood chamber'd in his bosom.
To Bolingbroke.
He's very likely now to fall from him,
TYRREL:
GRUMIO:
He will allow no speech, which I do guess
A weeder-out of his proud adversaries,
FLORIZEL:

For I will kiss her.
LUCIO:
What was your dream? I long to hear you tell it.
Take not the quarrel from his powerful arm;
Allaying both their fury and my passion
Voice, gait and action of a gentlewoman:

When I was crown'd I was but nine months old.
CHRISTOPHER:
He shall espouse Elizabeth her daughter.
Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester?
And thou, Hortensio, with thy loving widow,

Pass'd over to the end they were created,
Heat outwardly or breath within, I'll serve you
Father:
His daughter's trial! that he did but see

I did not kill your husband.
As little skill to fear as I have purpose

Or is the adder better than the eel,
And it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!
In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
I do lament the sickness of the king.
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
They said they were an-hungry; sigh'd forth proverbs,
If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
it: but, first, how the poor souls roared, and the

JULIET:
As dissolute as desperate; yet through both
married man, he's his wife's head, and I can never
The news, Rogero?
Here in this country, where we now remain.
How would you live, Pompey? by being a bawd? What
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
LEONTES:
KING HENRY VI:
So do not I: go, coward as thou art.

How now! what news?
We hear not of him, neither need we fear him;
But how long shall that title 'ever' last?
Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?

burthens of dildos and fadings, 'jump her and thump


Sirrah, be gone, or talk not, I advise you.
Perchance shall dry your pities: but I have
Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?
And who should say, 'I would thou wert the man'
Have you
What say you, uncle?
The child-bed privilege denied, which 'longs
Save that, for reverence to some alive,

LUCENTIO:
So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
I call'd thee then vain flourish of my fortune;
What colour for my visitation shall I
Shall I obtain it?
Hence from Verona art thou banished:
I follow you.

Your pardon, sir; for this
ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to
As breathed stags, ay, fleeter than the roe.
What 'twere to lose it, and be miserable!


To the rock, to the rock with him!
Above the border of this horizon,
Found out the remedy. How would you be,
Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
Accountant to the law upon that pain.
CORIOLANUS:
And where two raging fires meet together
You Edward, shall unto my Lord Cobham,

That Norfolk lies: here do I throw down this,

If not, the city being but of small defence,

POMPEY:
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;
consent to die this day, that's certain.


I know her answer.
ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who,
ROMEO:

That's yet unbruised: bring me but out at gate.
How now, Abhorson? what's the news with you?
SICINIUS:
And an old hare hoar,
And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
Bring me to hear them speak, where I may be concealed.
His popular 'shall' against a graver bench
Come, lay aside your stitchery; I must have you play


Deserves your hate; and your affections are
First Citizen:
the weather or our office.
The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home


I will discharge thee.
I do, my lord.

YORK:
wish him to her father.
The meat was well, if you were so contented.
Even where his lustful eye or savage heart,

Come, my old son: I pray God make thee new.
The usurping helmets of our adversaries!
your grace
Or wrath or craft may get him.



That by degrees we mean to look into,

My father Capulet will have it so;
Pray you, my lord, give me leave to question; you
PAULINA:
O here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an
the coast on Wednesday the four-score of April,
That, though I want a kingdom, yet in marriage
I am thus resolved: on Sunday next you know
BIANCA:
My widow says, thus she conceives her tale.
And when I wander here and there,
Nurse?
First Servingman:


Nay, I will win my wager better yet
Anon!
Or earth, gape open wide and eat him quick,
SEBASTIAN:
Leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure.
He was your enemy, ever spake against
Myself to be a marvellous proper man.
TRANIO:
CATESBY:
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
Unless my hand and strength could equal them.
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
BIONDELLO:
And unavoided is the danger now,

Stanley, he is your wife's son well, look to it.
On what condition stands it and wherein?

Without suspicion.
Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground,
Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou wilt have


His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,
Thus do I leave thee. Come, son, let's away;
At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
Unless for that he comes to be your liege,
CORIOLANUS:
Post thou to Salisbury
TYBALT:

And smell of calumny. I have begun,
Then all afire with me: the king's son, Ferdinand,
To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous
As thou art tender to't.
Which I will purchase with my duteous service;
CORIOLANUS:
That no particular scandal once can touch
I would your duty were as foolish too:
POLIXENES:
SEBASTIAN:
MOPSA:
So well I know my duty to my elders.
Princes have but their tides for their glories,
KATHARINA:
companions, is all ready, and all things neat?
And I am one that love Bianca more
I'm out of patience.

LUCIO:
And urged it twice together, did he not?


Ignomy in ransom and free pardon
To have a temple built you: all the swords

QUEEN MARGARET:
Yet am I sick for fear: speak it again;

What he cannot help in his nature, you account a
Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever;
And, if I fall not in my deep intent,
plebeians: I will be bold to take my leave of you.

ROMEO:
POLIXENES:
Is all the policy, strength and defence,


it quite, friar, till eating and drinking be put
Who did hoot him out o' the city.
The violation of my faith; and then

VOLUMNIA:

KING RICHARD II:
To thee, that hast nor honesty nor grace.

But you have power in me as in a kinsman.
The plebeians have got your fellow-tribune
Clown:
furred with fox and lamb-skins too, to signify, that
Provost, my brother Angelo will not be altered;
I thank your worship for your good counsel:


RICHARD:
to carry him to execution, and showed him a seeming
Shall come again, transform'd to orient pearl,
Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
RICHARD:

The sun shines hot; and, if we use delay,
ANGELO:
Widow:
With pay and thanks, and let's away to London
And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.
being a tall fellow, trust me not. Hark! the kings
Farewell, my lord: securely I espy
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
I will pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage: If
And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
Little.
RATCLIFF:
That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow:
LUCIO:
think well to carry this as you may, the doubleness
And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.
If it were so,--

A handkerchief; which, say to her, did drain
One three of them, by their own report, sir, hath
Before so noble and so great a figure
None that I more love than myself. You are a

No, good sir;
And Anne my wife hath bid the world good night.

BISHOP OF CARLISLE:
Sir, I know him, and I love him.
My revenge properly, my remission lies
found his heir?
You did mistake.
Abated captives to some nation

Having some business, do entreat her eyes
To greet mine own land with my wishful sight.
Marry, sir, he hath offended the law: and, sir, we
But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical:
Clown:
Her heart is but o'ercharged; she will recover:
not give you three-pence again.
She had; and would incense me
Frenchwoman.
Or butchers killing flies.
And God, not we, hath plagued thy bloody deed.
Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
there rooted betwixt them then such an affection,
Tush, Gremio, though it pass your patience and mine
So did he me: and he no more remembers his mother
The jewel that we find, we stoop and take't
Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
Grumio gave order how it should be done.
LARTIUS:
Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay
Whilst thou liest warm at home, secure and safe;
ANGELO:


You cavil, widow: I did mean, my queen.
I'll take it as a peril to my soul,
Procure me music ready when he wakes,

BUCKINGHAM:
And will, no doubt, shortly be rid of me.
Even to a full disgrace. Best of my flesh,
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
BUCKINGHAM:
And then begin again, and stop again,
BAPTISTA:
labour and effect one thing specially.


How soon my sorrow hath destroy'd my face.


Go, and be ruled: although I know thou hadst rather
Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee,
And if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.

And we create, in absence of ourself,
End in a word: such is the breath of kings.
O my lord!
This enemy town. I'll enter: if he slay me,

My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar
And I'll believe thee.
He hugg'd me in his arms, and swore, with sobs,
HORTENSIO:
Than if thou never hadst deserved our hate.
Purge all infection from our air whilst you
I' the commonwealth I would by contraries
And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring
that I found; it beggars any man that keeps it: it
Not what is dangerous present, but the loss
Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
CORIOLANUS:
If but one of his pockets could speak, would it not
DION:
BAPTISTA:
Be swift like lightning in the execution;
Joy absent, grief is present for that time.

MARCIUS:

Can set the duke up in despite of me.
SLY:
I'll tell him of you.
The woe's to come; the children yet unborn.
FRIAR PETER:

Be ready to direct these home alarms.
With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.

For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand;
Not to kill him, having a warrant for it; but to be
Is your man secret? Did you ne'er hear say,
Ha' not you seen, Camillo,--
Having bound up the threatening twigs of birch,
You are my father, for methinks in you
One on 's father's moods.
Put in their hands thy bruising irons of wrath,
Confound your hidden falsehood, and award

Go, then; for 'tis in vain


pleased, let them come in; but quickly now.

Join not with grief, fair woman, do not so,

The ground indeed is tawny.

But cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
HORTENSIO:
To save this bastard's life,--for 'tis a bastard,

LUCIO:
RICHARD:
I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter!
Though I show'd sourly to him, once more offer'd

QUEEN ELIZABETH:
WARWICK:

That which you are, mistress o' the feast: come on,
you first,
That thou hadst call'd me all these bitter names.
I do arrest your words. Be that you are,
Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear
To save me from the danger that might come
KING RICHARD II:
A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman,
Come, come, you have been too rough, something

But twenty times so much upon my wife.
Away! for vengeance comes along with them:
Marry, as for Clarence, he is well repaid,
To have him suddenly convey'd away.
Fourth Citizen:

We will so: almost all
WARWICK:
PETRUCHIO:
Our doctors say this is no month to bleed.
KATHARINA:
And say you would present her at the leet,
In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,

Less appear so in comforting your evils,
What, would you have my weapon, little lord?

As that of true and faithful Juliet.
HASTINGS:
Boy!
3 KING HENRY VI

And twangling Jack; with twenty such vile terms,
VAUGHAN:
I do beseech you, take it not amiss;
Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome,
So sweet is zealous contemplation.
Then know, that from my soul I love thy daughter.
GLOUCESTER:

Who, after great Hostilius, here was king;
Must it be violent, and as he does conceive
Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have

Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy
ISABELLA:
The lamb.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
disease our better mirth.
Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach.
Go to kennel, Pompey; go.
cause between an orange wife and a fosset-seller;
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
Though heaven cannot: O Romeo, Romeo!
dial is now upon the prick of noon.
Of Marcius?
Go fetch him hither; let me look upon him.
Suddenly taken; and hath sent post haste
LEONTES:
thy shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love,
My mind presageth happy gain and conquest.
The County Paris hath set up his rest,

PRINCE:
Whom God hath join'd together; ay, and 'twere pity
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple:
HORTENSIO:

PETRUCHIO:
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
Now, by my George, my garter, and my crown,--


Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
JULIET:
What, by a horseman, or a footman?

GREMIO:
As you would beg, were you in my distress
Nor can we lie distinguish'd by our faces
Page:
Hence with him to the Tower; let him not speak.

against us.
FRANCISCA:
Let's be no stoics nor no stocks, I pray;
Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries,



Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?
And offer me disguised in sober robes
ADRIAN:
LADY ANNE:
Third Gentleman:
Or wilt thou sleep? we'll have thee to a couch

One time will owe another.
And wrap our bodies in black mourning gowns,
That modesty may more betray our sense
you shall go by him.
Then, Bolingbroke, as low as to thy heart,
I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.
To one that would do thus. I am half through;
NORTHUMBERLAND:
The shadow of my sorrow! ha! let's see:

you are reverend grave men, yet they lie deadly that
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge;

KING RICHARD III:
As Angelo; even so may Angelo,
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby
And may direct his course as please himself,

BAGOT:
Of the new'st and finest, finest wear-a?
With all your just proceedings in this cause.
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
POMPEY:
Being counted falsehood, shall, as I express it,
And, lords, towards Coventry bend we our course
From worthy Edward, King of Albion,
Tell him, and spare not: look, what I have said
Art thou his father?
You are most welcome home.
Like man new made.

ISABELLA:
KING EDWARD IV:
Third Roman:
Let's make the best of it.


He is a kinsman to the Montague;
TRANIO:
Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own,
Or else my heart concealing it will break,
ISABELLA:

Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come

With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath,
LEONTES:
But we will plant some other in the throne,
love not Marcius.

O, the better, sir; for he that drinks all night,
Clown:
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
To be full quit of those my banishers,
Trust to't, thou shalt not--on thy mother's womb,
What less than dooms-day is the prince's doom?
And you, good brother father. What offence hath
A noble cunning: you were used to load me

La you now, you hear:
Standing your friendly lord.
How can we aid you with our kindred tears?
Thus stands it with me: upon a true contract
TRANIO:
And here I'll fling the pillow, there the bolster,
ROMEO:
Tell thou the lamentable tale of me

I am a king, and privileged to speak.
And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear
Of pity, not revenge!
Conduct me to the queen.

HASTINGS:
Second Watchman:
What, is my Richard both in shape and mind
I dreamt my master and another fought,
Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick;

The multitudinous tongue; let them not lick
CLIFFORD:
Of golden metal that must round my brow
Myself in person will straight follow you.
maids, and cut off their heads.

sun looking with a southward eye upon him, where he
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
And  
ISABELLA:
Your precious self had then not cross'd the eyes
I conjure thee, by all the parts of man
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
Strike the proud cedars 'gainst the fiery sun;
From Rome.
And if thy poor devoted suppliant may
Her eye, and tell me for what dull part in't
With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.
On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.
Which he did end all his; and took some pride


LUCIO:

His soldiers lurking in the towns about,
Come unto these yellow sands,
change your trade; I'll be your tapster still.
That is, not bestow my youngest daughter
Messenger:
past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy,
But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage;

On your allegiance,
You may say it, but not swear it.
in him than there is milk in a male tiger; that
To-night she is mew'd up to her heaviness.

Any man that can write may answer a letter.
AUTOLYCUS:
Tell me her father's name and 'tis enough;
An if you please to call it a rush-candle,
counterfeit assurance: take you assurance of her,
And will you pale your head in Henry's glory,
Unknown to the beginning.

I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts.
Second Murderer:
Give the all-hail to thee and cry 'Be blest


Away with scrupulous wit! now arms must rule.
Lords, to the field; Saint George and victory!

That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad!
Hath all so long detain'd you from your wife,
How thou camest here thou mayst.
CORIOLANUS:
What more fearful?

Let go.
'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he,
LUCIO:
And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,

Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword,
To sue to live, I find I seek to die;
Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes,
I will appeach the villain.

Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed!
You might have been enough the man you are,

The one side must have bale.
Witnessing storms to come, woe and unrest:
I ever said we were i' the wrong when we banished
He can command, lets it straight feel the spur;
The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more
To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me;

With Angelo to-night shall lie

PAULINA:
I doubt not then but innocence shall make
This is a brave fellow.


Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
Her widowhood, be it that she survive me,
Spoke he of me?
Let me commend thee first to those that shall
So I would you did; then 'twere past all doubt
Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
I am sorry that such sorrow I procure:
But, most of all, agreeing with the proclamation.
But to confirm my curses! Could I meet 'em
The fresh-brook muscles, wither'd roots and husks
Falls into forfeit: he arrests him on it;
Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke,
Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head.

Come:
Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb,
Awaked you not with this sore agony?
All Conspirators:



Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
Besides, the king's name is a tower of strength,

Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,

For ending thee no sooner. Thou hast nor youth nor age,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
A mighty man of Pisa; by report
Or hollowly put on.
To use it for my time: I am a brother
PROSPERO:
GLOUCESTER:
Takes from Aufidius a great part of blame.
My lord, no leave take I; for I will ride,
Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers!
Done many things, some less, some more your voices:
Go, do our bidding; hence!
Grandam, we can; for my good uncle Gloucester

Now, by my seat's right royal majesty,
Richard and Hastings: let them go; here is The duke.
Be you content, fair maid;

And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
So said, so done, is well.
That fellow is a fellow of much licence: let him be
Harp on that still--but by our putting on;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Gramercy, fellow: there, drink that for me.
Unbuckle, unbuckle.
Will so your accusation overweigh,
It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.
DUKE OF SURREY:
By heaven, my heart is purged from grudging hate:
estimation of them; 'tis a condition they account
And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
CAMILLO:
More than thou hast, and with it joy thy life;
Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.

The nature of our seats and make the rabble
KATHARINA:
Speak ere thou diest.
Second Senator:
Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head.
Your joys with like relation. Go together,
KING HENRY VI:

Madam, we'll tell tales.
HERMIONE:
Where I arrive, and my approach be shunn'd,
Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts: I find
Of government the properties to unfold,
ISABELLA:
To one whom they had punish'd.
You are pardon'd, Isabel:
Have you collected them by tribes?

And wander we to see thy honest son,
Faith, here it is.
Provost:
And bring our horses unto Long-lane end;
Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you,

And still rest thine. The storm begins; poor wretch,
more comfortable sort: if my son were my husband, I
see him a man.
By my regard, but kill'd none so. Camillo,--
Third Gentleman:
Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
First Soldier:
I'll follow instantly.
PETRUCHIO:
A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep
BAPTISTA:
Our prayers do out-pray his; then let them have
And you shall well be spared.
I warrant your honour.
You being their mouths, why rule you not their teeth?
By the pattern of mine own thoughts I cut out
Shall we hear from thee, Tyrrel, ere we sleep?
But not my griefs; still am I king of those.

To whom I am subdued, are but light to me,
Second Murderer:
And not a maiden, as thou say'st he is.
Sir, spare your threats:
KING RICHARD III:

KING HENRY VI:
ISABELLA:
Thus by Apollo's great divine seal'd up,
thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:
Third Servingman:
Now Margaret's curse is fall'n upon our heads,

And never borrow any tear of thee.
To look upon my sometimes royal master's face.

Came to your court, how I was in your grace,
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues,

O, thou didst prophesy the time would come
FLORIZEL:
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell,
Roman:


England and France, and lord of Ireland, &c.
In what vile part of this anatomy
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye:
God give him joy!
MARIANA:
wicked villain, despite of all grace.
Death, desolation, ruin and decay:

For me to try how: all I know of it
And where care lodges, sleep will never lie;
Nay, I told you your son was well beloved in Padua.
Madam, I'll sing.
She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry,
Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
I'll perfect him withal, and he shall bring you
hath tamed my old master and my new mistress and
My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
ANGELO:
LUCENTIO:
She was, good Curtis, before this frost: but, thou
Give me his gage: lions make leopards tame.
WARWICK:
As my sweet Richard: yet again, methinks,
And strip myself to death, as to a bed

Are not these large enough?
mummers; set up the bloody flag against all
Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:

The air hath got into my deadly wounds,

BAPTISTA:
Caesar? art thou led in triumph? What, is there
And have forsworn you with Hortensio.

CORIOLANUS:

Must by us both be spent most preciously.

Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that ever
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.

To be to thee this night a torch-bearer,

But, master mayor, if Henry be your king,


thy mother!' then asks Bohemia forgiveness; then
But smacks of something greater than herself,
CAMILLO:
Was his great ancestor.
If I be traitor or unjustly fight!

Harp not on that, nor do not banish reason
CAMILLO:
KING RICHARD III:
Nor shall appear in Sicilia.
This is strange: methinks

But see, while idly I stood looking on,
Messenger:
I'll find about the making of the bed;
As mountain winds: but then exactly do
Your knees to me? to your corrected son?

Of what lies heavy to't.
good purpose. Doth your honour mark his face?
since the death of Hermione, visited that removed
QUEEN MARGARET:
That in the captain's but a choleric word,
ELBOW:
Well, sir; what did this gentleman to her?
POLIXENES:
BRUTUS:
I came to serve a king and not a duke.
TRANIO:
Art thou so hasty? I have stay'd for thee,
When men were fond, I smiled and wonder'd how.
My true Paulina,
as Volscians. They are rising, they are rising.
'Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.
I cannot make you what amends I would,
Is she become the suitor?
reputation. Come, shall we to this gear?
PETRUCHIO:
No, in good earnest.
BUCKINGHAM:

Where small experience grows. But in a few,
PAULINA:
Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.

BUCKINGHAM:
First, hear me speak.
POMPEY:

We render you the tenth, to be ta'en forth,
JULIET:
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
ROMEO:


Second Lord:
He that knows better how to tame a shrew,
First Keeper:
JULIET:
Here in your city; I now came from him:
Have you done there?
All bond and privilege of nature, break!
Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do lie

Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee:
Did shake down mellow fruit.
Even at his feet to lay my arms and power,
That I do beg his life, if it be sin,
man so rayed? was ever man so weary? I am sent
And when such time they have begun to cry,
heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,
My fortunes and my friends at stake required


were sensible as your finger, that you might leave
Ay, but the case is alter'd:
It burneth in the Capel's monument.
LORD ROSS:
Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
While she chats him: the kitchen malkin pins
But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
Is with a mighty power landed at Milford,

Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas;
PRINCE EDWARD:
To make amends, Ill give it to your daughter.
How went he under him?
We wait upon your grace.
I would land-damn him. Be she honour-flaw'd,
Where is thy husband now? where be thy brothers?
Nor never needed that I should entreat,


Besides, he says there are two councils held;
My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long borne
Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain:
would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh.



I do beseech thee--
Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
Then, masters, look to see a troublous world.
KING HENRY VI:
ESCALUS:
The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn;

MENENIUS:

Some remedies for life.
That she is busy and she cannot come.

And clap thyself my love: then didst thou utter

How not your own desire?
For visiting your highness: my best train
And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
DUCHESS OF YORK:
JULIET:
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
Go, you cot-quean, go,
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
The purple sap from her sweet brother's body
The peace of England and our persons' safety,
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
When he did need your loves, and do you think
BALTHASAR:
What counsel give you? whither shall we fly?
often burst and now repaired with knots; one girth
Well, let it strike.
LADY ANNE:
CLIFFORD:

As you, Lord Angelo, have still appear'd,
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto:
He is as like thee as a man may be,
Let me know the point.
We thank thee, gentle Percy, for thy pains;
What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland?
Was not incensed by his subtle mother
And now baits me! This brat is none of mine;
KING RICHARD III:



To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,

I am so fraught with curious business that
Where you were tied in duty, and as sorry
Is to become her husband and her father:
And most opportune to our need I have
good dishes,--

And held in idle price to haunt assemblies
I cannot do it; yet I'll hammer it out.
Let us survey the vantage of the field
HENRY PERCY:
Tell me thy mind; for I have Pisa left
Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,

And that his bags shall prove.
Tush, tush! fear boys with bugs.

RATCLIFF:
The Lord protect him from that kingly title!
Will maintain it with some little cost.
Why, this it is, when men are ruled by women:

Will bear up with this exercise, so long
I must needs wake her. Madam, madam, madam!

Who gently would dissolve the bands of life,


That you run mad, seeing that she is well:
Learn how 'tis held; and what they are that must
O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
Clown:

COMINIUS:
Clown:



Now, for my life, she's wandering to the Tower,
You scarce can right me throughly then to say
With no less terror than the elements
Thus, with his speechless hand: what he would do,
3 KING HENRY VI
But now, I tell thee--keep it to thyself--
Of hostile arms! myself myself confound!
That starts i' the way before thee.

No, not a denier. Go by, Jeronimy: go to thy cold




I am combined by a sacred vow
Lie hid moe thousand deaths: yet death we fear,
Ha!
you seem to be? Can you think to blow out the
CAMILLO:
And I unto the sea from whence I came.
I came to her from Claudio, and desired her
Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit;
Foul wrinkled witch, what makest thou in my sight?
My Lord!
RICHARD:
hose! a scarlet cloak! and a copatain hat! O, I

And we will both together to the Tower,
And bear this work of heaven with patience:
Then vail your ignorance; if none, awake
The manner of their taking may appear
Second Servingman:
OXFORD:
We may surprise and take him at our pleasure?
Speak suddenly, my lords, are we all friends?
CATESBY:
Much about cock-shut time, from troop to troop
What think you of it?
You have paid the heavens your function, and the


them plainly see't.

Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death

And none contented: sometimes am I king;

BAPTISTA:
Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free.
No less importing than our general good,
MENENIUS:
But is this true, sir?
O monstrous fault, to harbour such a thought!
First Murderer:
Do you so, sir? And was the duke a fleshmonger, a
Those are pearls that were his eyes:

'An if a man did need a poison now,
The fires i' the lowest hell fold-in the people!

that let me inform you.

Spare not for the cost.
God make your majesty joyful as you have been!
But one that's here, and that's himself, for he



And follow Marcius.
That you shall stifle in your own report

CURTIS:

Till the prince came, who parted either part.


Produce the prisoner.
But first I'll turn yon fellow in his grave;
Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows;
O just but severe law!

How now, old lad?
And yet I bear a burthen like an ass,
You should not blemish it, if I stood by:
So cowards fight when they can fly no further;
Than thee, all noble Marcius. Let me twine
MERCUTIO:

Then show it me.
When I shall ask the banns and when be married.
To dwell in solemn shades of endless night.
Ha, ha! what a fool Honesty is! and Trust, his
And if thou tell'st the heavy story right,
Upon his party: he, mistrusting them,
ROMEO:
may I be so bold to know the cause of your coming?
ANTONIO:
To this pernicious caitiff deputy,--
Banished, sir.
LEONTES:

Nay, it is ten times true; for truth is truth
For, being transported by my jealousies
That is the way to lay the city flat;
Courageous Richmond, well hast thou acquit thee.

single: your abilities are too infant-like for
Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
But what said Lady Bona to my marriage?
But since I cannot, be it known to you
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
In this just suit come I to move your grace.
When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.
Provost:
But yet, you see how soon the day o'ercast.
And, by God's mother, I, being but a bachelor,
Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred,
First Musician:

And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour;
ISABELLA:
LORD FITZWATER:
I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
inventory to particularise their abundance; our
Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
battery. He sits in his state, as a thing made for
KING RICHARD III:

This letter doth make good the friar's words,


Come not before him.
ELBOW:
I, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated
If I could shake off but one seven years
We will before the walls of Rome tomorrow
That justice seizes: what know the laws
With this young prince.
Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;
His execution sworn.
KING RICHARD II:
Second Murderer:

How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she
For thy great bounty, that not only givest
Our fair appointments may be well perused.
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
BENVOLIO:
Slander to the state! Away with him to prison!
And rail upon the hostess of the house;
That best can aid your action.

And general honour.
Ay, so we will.
LUCIO:
Out of her favour, where I am in love.
BRUTUS:

JOHN OF GAUNT:
Where? at the senate-house?
SAMPSON:
In the main battle, whose puissance on either side

Thank me no thankings, nor, proud me no prouds,
This let alone will all the rest confound.

First Citizen:

Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,
Second Conspirator:

LADY ANNE:

LEONTES:
Speak that,--
KING RICHARD III:
Persuade him that he hath been lunatic;
His smiles,
Thine enmity's most capital: thou barr'st us
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees,

Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee.
If by your art, my dearest father, you have
Clown:
AUFIDIUS:
Will but amount to five and twenty thousand,
DORCAS:
How I persuaded, how I pray'd, and kneel'd,
BALTHASAR:
A very mean meaning.
Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue,
AUTOLYCUS:
It is no sin at all, but charity.
The treasure in this field achieved and city,
It strains me past the compass of my wits:
a three-piled piece, I warrant thee: I had as lief
What wisdom stirs amongst you? Come, sir, now
Nurse:
Did, as he vouches, misreport your grace.
Now, by the world--

ANGELO:
Must get a father, call'd 'supposed Vincentio;'
Catesby, o'erlook the walls.

What would your grace have done unto him now?
What is't o'clock?
No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in
MONTAGUE:
That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,
They say, best men are moulded out of faults;
TYBALT:

I'll have thy beauty scratch'd with briers, and made
PAULINA:
Come, I have found you out a stand most fit,
Clown:
But if you mind to hold your true obedience,
POLIXENES:
Ay, but why?
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanced:
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
Living to time.
How it goes with us, and do look to know
Anthony Woodville, her brother there,
Were you sworn to the duke, or to the deputy?


O cousin, cousin!
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
I have a brother is condemn'd to die:

Or whether 'twas report of her success;
Will to your mother, to entreat of her
Or else for ever be confixed here,
sight of him.
BAPTISTA:

KATHARINA:
this controversy.
QUEEN MARGARET:
PARIS:
TYRREL:

When nature brought him to the door of death?
And we in them no hope to win the day;
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
Then, on the other side, I cheque'd my friends.
Shepherd:
I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail.

I would appeach him.

I'll to the queen: please you,


Sufficeth I am come to keep my word,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
That mortal ears might hardly endure the din?
O, she's warm!

Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot;
Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.
Is not your father grown incapable

QUEEN MARGARET:

prunes; and having but two in the dish, as I said,
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
No, Bolingbroke: if ever I were traitor,
If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke,
and a head-stall of sheeps leather which, being
In all which time you and your husband Grey
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
I should lament thy miserable state.
GLOUCESTER:
This speak I, lords, to let you understand,
I call them forth to credit her.
Unseparable, shall within this hour,
Second Murderer:
KING RICHARD II:
That's soon perform'd, because I am a subject.

Is that the rebels have consumed with fire
Of noisome musty chaff: he said 'twas folly,
AUTOLYCUS:
And thou shalt tell the process of their death.
And say poor Margaret was a prophetess!


ANGELO:
And kingly government of this your land,
Was never mother had so dear a loss!
I am bound to you:
HERMIONE:
JULIET:

Distinguish form: so your sweet majesty,

Worthy voices!
GLOUCESTER:
For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.
BUCKINGHAM:

Have said and writ so, but your writing now
For thine own bowels, which do call thee sire,
How sweet a thing it is to wear a crown;
Hath he so long held out with me untired,
As is the bud bit with an envious worm,
I have done so, but he's not to be found.
Yes, one place else, if you will hear me name it.
'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'd
SICINIUS:
Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
For though usurpers sway the rule awhile,
And all his lands and goods be confiscate.
Though you are old enough to be my heir.
O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune and thy state:
O, find him! give this ring to my true knight,

As recompense of our dear services
Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies,


Than a perpetual honour. Darest thou die?


BUCKINGHAM:

What counsel, lords? Edward from Belgia,
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings,
Cannot be mute,--or thought,--for cogitation
Forbid the sea for to obey the moon
MARIANA:
Master, master, look about you: who goes there, ha?
What, my gracious lord?
So say we too, but not by Edward's wife;
I will, as 'twere a brother of your order,
The general suit of Rome; never admitted
I shall discharge to the life.
When they do homage to this simple peasant.
Just of his colour. What if we do omit
I hear their drums: let's set our men in order,
Soft son!
Farewell, good friar: I prithee, pray for me. The
Dive, thoughts, down to my soul: here
And those but mean.


Among fresh female buds shall you this night
And come some other time to know our mind.
That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
Marry, and shall.
God pardon them that are the cause of it!
I must obey: his art is of such power,
BRUTUS:
ROMEO:
So much for that. The silent hours steal on,


Did prophesy that Richmond should be king,
there's some boot.
BAPTISTA:
Up, sir, go with me;
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
capital? Tell me, for you seem to be honest plain
I am their mother; who should keep me from them?
Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham,
Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
For aught I know, my lord, they do.
AUTOLYCUS:
Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.
See you yond coign o' the Capitol, yond
COMINIUS:
WESTMORELAND:
Lest she should be denied.

Cousin of Buckingham, and you sage, grave men,

So vulgarly and personally accused,
QUEEN MARGARET:
He should receive his punishment in thanks:
every wink of an eye some new grace will be born:
Where, ere we do repose us, we will write
I confess the cape.
the pantry, and every thing in extremity. I must
Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
POMPEY:
Spoke like a tail fellow that respects his
PRINCE:
Oh, poor Clarence!
SICINIUS:
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
And all your southern gentlemen in arms
QUEEN ELIZABETH:

Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman:
CORIOLANUS:
ESCALUS:
Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west,

Ah, that thy father had been so resolved!
KING EDWARD IV:
Nurse:
Pardon it;
But, leaving this, what is your grace's pleasure?
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
a pair of strange ones.
It must be great that can inherit us
She'll take the enterprise upon her, father,
though not personal, have been royally attorneyed
As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and labour


PROSPERO:
man; prove it.
He's all my exercise, my mirth, my matter,
Shepherd:
That my remembrance warrants. Had I not
And in conclusion wins the king from her,
better determine.





And cannot now accept; to grace him only
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
What shall I say? to safeguard thine own life,

Were in wild hurry. Here do we make his friends
I will some other be, some Florentine,
First Citizen:



Governs Lord Angelo; a man whose blood
Good, speak to the mariners: fall to't, yarely,
BUCKINGHAM:


Take thy commission.
Nimble mischance, that art so light of foot,
change garments with this gentleman: though the
His statutes cancell'd and his treasure spent;
As cause had call'd you up, have held him to
And so she shall; Lucentio shall make one,
ARIEL:
KATHARINA:
Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.
afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to

trust you not; 'Hic steterat Priami,' take heed
The damned'st body to invest and cover
For I will board her, though she chide as loud
Go you the next way with your findings. I'll go see
And stops he now for breath?

Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands;

Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans.
That fear to hate, and hate turns one or both
my brother; whose loss of his most precious queen
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
Nurse:
You keep a constant temper.
WARWICK:
Dispose of her
PETRUCHIO:
KING RICHARD III:
My breast can better brook thy dagger's point
Than your good words. But who comes here?

Has cluck'd thee to the wars and safely home,
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a
First Watchman:
And that my master slew him.
To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
God keep your lordship in that gracious mind!
But say, is Warwick friends with Margaret?

Why, how now, dame! whence grows this insolence?
MERCUTIO:
Now, by my mother's son, and that's myself,
Unmanner'd dog! stand thou, when I command:

Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
Than hope enjoy'd: by this the weary lords
Upon record, my gracious lord.
The contrary doth make thee wonder'd at:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
SAMPSON:
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:
That Henry liveth still: but were he dead,
Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
Why, what is Tybalt?
That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister,
He hath, my lord.
When, by and by, the din of war gan pierce
you give me any conserves, give me conserves of
Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
THOMAS MOWBRAY:


Clown:
Come, bring them away: if these be good people in
The anvil of my sword, and do contest
of the prison; give him leave to escape hence, he
Make war upon themselves; blood against blood,

Who is that calls so coldly?
Tranio, be so, because Lucentio loves:
I talk of that, that know it.

Than he appears by speech: this is unwonted
CORIOLANUS:
against it with my life.
Had thy brethren here, their lives and thine


What, think you then the king shall be deposed?
MAMILLIUS:
ISABELLA:

You have received many wounds for your country.
The thing I have forsworn to grant may never
Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.
Ere you can say 'she's honest:' but be 't known,

I know I am too mean to be your queen,
JULIET:

But tie him not to be their bedfellow.


Ay, with my sword. What! think'st thou that we fear them?
CLIFFORD:
AUFIDIUS:
KING EDWARD IV:

every lane's end, every shop, church, session,
As they would hang them on the horns o' the moon,

Be plainer with me; let me know my trespass
LARTIUS:
By heavens, the duke shall know how slack thou art!
Do you neglect them?
Tell Bolingbroke--for yond methinks he stands--
GEORGE:
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
CORIOLANUS:

VALERIA:

Well, give me the moiety. Are you a party in this business?
Where'er I wander, boast of this I can,

QUEEN:
Which thou supposest I have done to thee.
PERDITA:


KING RICHARD III:

Ha! little honour to be much believed,
Roman:
QUEEN MARGARET:
Wherein your lady and your humble wife
Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;
PETRUCHIO:



Camest thou by this ill tidings? speak, thou wretch.

ARIEL:
Tell him his fears are shallow, wanting instance:
It issues from the rancour of a villain,

We did believe no less.
Clown:
To keep the oath that we administer:
Having God, her conscience, and these bars

KING RICHARD II:

Of your fresh princess; o'er and o'er divides him
His dukedom and his chair with me is left.
Clown:
MERCUTIO:
What, what? his choler?
Shepherd:
MERCUTIO:
SICINIUS:
But then up farther, and as for as Rome;
Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?

ABHORSON:
I know him for a man divine and holy;
And what shall become of those in the city?
Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.

Nurse:
But I disdain'd it, and did scorn to fly:
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
BENVOLIO:
Look where he comes.
Let him be crown'd; in him your comfort lives:
Farewell, our brother.
Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
To scarlet indignation and bedew
If not, Signior Gremio:
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.
Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.

Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;
CLARENCE:
Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
Our Perdita is found.

An old hare hoar,
would think scolding would do little good upon him:
CAMILLO:
But kneels and holds up bands for fellowship,
BENVOLIO:
Is't possible that so short a time can alter the
I did not see your grace: humbly on my knee

And let him learn to know, when maidens sue,
'Have I no friend?' quoth he: he spake it twice,
I'll show't the king and undertake to be

That, lying by the violet in the sun,
Was to send him; for whose old love I have,
My hand is ready; may it do him ease.
A city full; of tribunes, such as you,
First Servant:
Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
and will not--
Give you good morrow, sir.
Made all of false-faced soothing!
And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.
Well, you are come to me in a happy time;

Touching the weal o' the common, you shall find
HERMIONE:
Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach
Why, in good time.
Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,
For emulation now, who shall be nearest,
No excuse current, but to hang thyself.


I will attend her here,
Intends you for his swift ambassador,
Which stretched to their servants, daughters, wives,

A villain that is hither come in spite,
I'll be with you at your sheep-shearing too: if I
KING RICHARD III:
By Providence divine.
That every stride he makes upon my land



Proceed in practise with my younger daughter;
sign of dolour to another, she did, with an 'Alas,'


Pray so; and, for the ordering your affairs,
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
Whate'er it bodes, henceforward will I bear
What, had he so?
Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
'Tis false.
I am directed by you.
Do light upon her, she shall bring him that

Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie;
To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
With signs of war about his aged neck:
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
Plantagenet! I come, Plantagenet!
That I'll straight do; and, knowing myself again,
FERDINAND:
My lord, will't please you to fall to?
And though the edge hath something hit ourselves,
Or docks, or mallows.
By Jupiter! forgot.
CAPULET:


Therefore delay not, give thy hand to Warwick;
Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford,
And he whose wife is most obedient
Give me my boots, I say.
Think that I am unking'd by Bolingbroke,
Be round impaled with a glorious crown.
Which now the house of Lancaster usurps,
ROMEO:
It is not his, my lord; here Southam lies:
a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross
The tyrannous and bloody deed is done.
The same, sir.
GONZALO:
That excellent grand tyrant of the earth,
To be set high in place, we did commend
STANLEY:
So far be mine, my most redoubted lord,

but even now. Whoa, ho, hoa!

Ready, with every nod, to tumble down
How the dispatch is made, and in what fashion,
I play the torturer, by small and small
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
How fares our gracious lady?
would preferment drop on my head. I brought the old
Who sued to me for him? who, in my rage,
Now fair befal thee and thy noble house!
Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
Sir, believe this,
No other harm but loss of such a lord.
Into this chiefest thicket of the park.

And when they from thy bosom pluck a flower,
A power I have, but of what strength and nature
Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
QUEEN MARGARET:
The tiger now hath seized the gentle hind;
LARTIUS:
Why should hard-favour'd grief be lodged in thee,
Where he shall answer, by a lawful form,
May this, almost a miracle, be done?
SICINIUS:
I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
Darest thou, thou little better thing than earth,
Charges she more than me?


Thy news?
ROMEO:

YORK:

colour; some swooned, all sorrowed: if all the world
How often have I told you 'twould be thus!
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Some Neapolitan, or meaner man of Pisa.

CLARENCE:
PETRUCHIO:
Turn then my freshest reputation to
Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother:

The charges of the action. We have made peace
shepherd, which stands by like a weather-bitten
Alack, for mercy!
That same villain, Romeo.

We must not make a scarecrow of the law,
Unsavoury news! but how made he escape?

Who calls so loud?
Such is the lightness of you common men.
My Lord of Hereford here, whom you call king,
See how he fares.
She's an adulteress.
KATHARINA:
HENRY PERCY:
Raise up the Montagues: some others search:
Do their best office, if they can but stay you
Ourself and Bushy, Bagot here and Green
Be it with resolution then to fight.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:

put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of
MERCUTIO:

Revolving this will teach thee how to curse.
To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds:
Prepare thy battle early in the morning,
Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised.
Stands for my bounty. But who comes here?
Hastings, and Edward's children, Rivers, Grey,
VOLUMNIA:
COMINIUS:
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,

And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
How I am galled,--mightst bespice a cup,
O any thing, of nothing first create!
Hear a little further
Fated to the purpose did Antonio open
KING RICHARD II:
That vulgars give bold'st titles, ay, and privy
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
Now, sir, come on: what was done to Elbow's wife, once more?
Upon his party.
Make yourselves scabs?
The people's enemy is gone, is gone!


Let him be whipt and hang'd.
Upon my party, I'ld revolt to make
And his pure soul unto his captain Christ,
So full of ugly sights, of ghastly dreams,
KING RICHARD II:
I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares:
What raiment will your honour wear to-day?
And do you tell me of a woman's tongue,
To murder me?
Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs,

And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.

GRUMIO:
POMPEY:
Come on, i' God's name; once more toward our father's.
Can vengeance be pursued further than death?
Look that my staves be sound, and not too heavy.
Ho! who's here?
AUFIDIUS:
They have placed their men of trust?
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
Strike all that look upon with marvel. Come,
KING RICHARD III:
Provost:
What you command, that rests in me to do.
And on a safer judgment all revoke
FERDINAND:
your full time of imprisonment and your deliverance
He dies to-night.

My lord, I am more amazed at his dishonour
The wisdom of your duty, fair Bianca,
Bid him not fear the separated councils
Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds,


ISABELLA:
Such news, my lord, as grieves me to unfold.
KATHARINA:
To plot, contrive, or complot any ill
MARCIUS:
CLAUDIO:
If it prove
wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears,
And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?

Upon my part shall be unviolable.
VINCENTIO:
I will not rise, unless your highness grant.
I fear me, never.
Well you deserve: they well deserve to have,
LUCENTIO:
He did.


FRIAR PETER:
Howlings attend it: how hast thou the heart,
putting-on; methinks strangely, for he hath not used it before.
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
But such as I, without your special pardon,
Which since we cannot do to make you friends,

Which he not dreams of.
LEONTES:
BUCKINGHAM:
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
God save his majesty!
Provost:

My mercy dried their water-flowing tears;

Pursued my humour not pursuing his,
ANGELO:

Run not before mine honour, nor my lusts
Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant
For wise men say it is the wisest course.
Well, then, imprison him: if imprisonment be the
Whose father bears the title of a king,--
sell him an hour from her beholding, I, considering
Which fondly you would here impose on me;
And I will speak, that so my heart may burst.
The old cock.
And this is Edward's wife, that monstrous witch,
Have we pass'd through, not without much content
Yield, Marcius, yield!
Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth,
Bear with me; I am hungry for revenge,
And for we think the eagle-winged pride

Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought,
Than can my ears that tragic history.

Look you speak justly.
LEONTES:

QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Third Citizen:
This, this All-Souls' day to my fearful soul
EXETER:
That you stand pensive, as half malcontent?
Is either slain or wounded dangerously;
But, ere I go, Hastings and Montague,
On fair ground
How fares my Kate? What, sweeting, all amort?
I give thee this to dry thy cheeks withal.
That any did. Had we pursued that life,

Please you to do't,
May give you thankful sacrifice.
Therefore paucas pallabris; let the world slide: sessa!

Bohemia stops his ears, and threatens them
WARWICK:
To Marcius shall be honours, though indeed
I took an oath that he should quietly reign.
Obey the bride, you that attend on her;

I swear I'll cuff you, if you strike again.
To study fashions to adorn my body:
MARIANA:
O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee hence!
Pedant:

O, fie, fie, fie!
MENENIUS:
The tribunes cannot do't for shame; the people
First Citizen:
PERDITA:
I am, and by my fancy: if my reason
To shame unvulnerable, and stick i' the wars

And of his friends there, it is lots to blanks,
Come hither, England's hope.
Upon his palm!--How now, you wanton calf!
With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
But to fine issues, nor Nature never lends
You fight in justice: then, in God's name, lords,
Than all the rest, discharged me with these words:
CAMILLO:
To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly,
In her imagined person.
That burn by day and night: and then I loved thee
For you, my noble Lord of Lancaster,
SICINIUS:
Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts
There's thy reward: be gone.
The adventure of her person?
I could not send it,--here it is again,--
By this reckoning he is more shrew than she.
Which to maintain I would allow him odds,
POMPEY:
By you unhappied and disfigured clean:
It could not slake mine ire, nor ease my heart.
We do request your kindest ears, and after,
KING EDWARD IV:
And of their feather many more proud birds,
Being once perfected how to grant suits,
Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
I have reserved alive.
in studs, and here and there pieced with packthread.
The mayor is here at hand: intend some fear;
Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
To tell us whether they will come or no!
Destroy what lies before 'em.
Insolent villain!
Who, I, my lord I we know each other's faces,
JULIET:
And promise them success and victory.
For that my sovereign liege was in my debt
CLIFFORD:
My gentle Marcius, worthy Caius, and
His wife is in Corioli and his child
And lasting fealty to the new-made king.
That we are those which chased you from the field
The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold,
Come, bring forth the prisoners.
ESCALUS:
I had a Harry, till a Richard kill'd him:
the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and
The noble duke hath sworn his coming is
And bashful Henry deposed, whose cowardice

And threat the glory of my precious crown.
Why, so: you have made good work!
the curses he shall have, the tortures he shall
MARIANA:
To faithful service of your majesty.
Will be my knell. Go, play, boy, play.
Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.
Clown:
Marshal, demand of yonder champion

ESCALUS:
honestly; for, as you know, Master Froth, I could

Of that proud man that did usurp his back?
The duke is made protector of the realm;
The grandchild to her blood. But, out, affection!
GLOUCESTER:

nothing but secrecy. Let my sheep go: come, good
The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye,
YORK:
MENENIUS:
Through it do well, I do not relish well

Having determined of the Volsces and
Marry, this Claudio is condemned for untrussing.
Because it is an enemy to thee;
DUKE VINCENTIO:
HASTINGS:
GREEN:




I, that did never weep, now melt with woe
Both you and I; for Romeo is exiled:
To-day shalt thou behold a subject die
But, to prevent the tyrant's violence,--
How, sir! do you meddle with my master?
Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
This shall determine that.
He makes for England, there to claim the crown.
MENENIUS:
PETRUCHIO:
O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
And perform an old contracting.
In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown:
Yet nature is made better by no mean
The nature of their crimes, that I may minister
Such as he hath observed in noble ladies
What is become of Bushy? where is Green?
PETRUCHIO:
He shall not rule me.
A Patrician:

KING EDWARD IV:
O, ye're well met: the hoarded plague o' the gods
To save this brother's life?
And all combined, save what thou must combine
For one poor grain or two, to leave unburnt,
AUTOLYCUS:
Then his good report should have been my son; I
Feast with the best, and welcome to my house:
Which so long sunder'd friends should dwell upon:
I'll send some packing that yet think not on it.
The general, subject to a well-wish'd king,
Peace and prosperity! Who is't that calls
ESCALUS:
Advertising and holy to your business,
And carry with us ears and eyes for the time,
With many more confederates, are in arms.
Unhappy Claudio! wretched Isabel!

First Servingman:

JULIET:

You'd be so lean, that blasts of January

ADRIAN:
O God, that seest it, do not suffer it!
knew the service, and that instructed him to mercy.
have, I am one that, telling true under him, must

Most mighty sovereign,

To those whose dealings have deserved the place,
Nurse:
LUCENTIO:

Apollo be my judge!
My gracious silence, hail!

Thereon dependent, for your brother's life,--
Good-morrow, cousin.

BENVOLIO:


Will cost my crown, and like an empty eagle


GLOUCESTER:
report you.


I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
And rear it in the place your father's stands.
We honour you with trouble: but we came
Go, signify as much, while here we march
PETRUCHIO:
And yet we should, for perpetuity,
My work hath yet not warm'd me: fare you well:
Then our office may,
lost my crupper, with many things of worthy memory,
And from my soul too;
MENENIUS:

Shame come to Romeo!
Thou art the cause, and most accursed effect.
was senseless; 'twas nothing to geld a codpiece of a
Now humble as the ripest mulberry

RIVERS:
There's some in hope.
For making up this peace!' Thou know'st, great son,
vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
With such austerity as 'longeth to a father.
O Clifford, how thy words revive my heart!
Will not King Richard let me speak with him?
MIRANDA:
Call'd Katharina, fair and virtuous?
Under the canopy!

You are old enough now, and yet, methinks, you lose.
Come you hither to me, Master tapster. What's your
Would say your head and butt were head and horn.
AUTOLYCUS:
That princely novice, was struck dead by thee?
To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.
Both:
That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long,
LADY CAPULET:
As certain as I know the sun is fire:


Pursuivant:
You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should.
as it were, mean mischief and break a foul gap into
POMPEY:
That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
drum struck up this afternoon: 'tis, as it were, a
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:

I will not sup to-night.
Father, what news? what is the prince's doom?
GONZALO:
And the place death, considering who thou art,
To play the broker in mine own behalf;
MENENIUS:
QUEEN:
PETER:
I do; and will fetch off Bohemia for't;
BENVOLIO:

Neighbour, well met: whither away so fast?
Away with the joint-stools, remove the
sure of it. To express the like kindness, myself,

I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
Where is the post that came from Montague?
HORTENSIO:
What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid
We recommend to you, tribunes of the people,
Well, what was yours?
CURTIS:
By and by, I come:--
I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
Have done thy charm, thou hateful wither'd hag!
Sprawl'st thou? take that, to end thy agony.
PROSPERO:
And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
CORIOLANUS:
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;
Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
Abbot:

LADY ANNE:
LEONTES:

Provost:
In that's no changeling; and I must excuse
'Thou shalt not steal'?
once to all the points o' the compass.
Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee,
My lord's almost so far transported that

Thou dearest Perdita,

CORIOLANUS:
Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays,
Down with that sword! Tribunes, withdraw awhile.



O, if thine eye be not a flatterer,
Why whisper you, my lords, and answer not?
Man-enter'd thus, he waxed like a sea,
HORTENSIO:
She is i' the rear our birth.

My ashes, as the phoenix, may bring forth
I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
Of excellent witchcraft, who of force must know
ESCALUS:
Nay Warwick, single out some other chase;
That is your part: yet I am advised to do it;
I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.
GRUMIO:
And I but dream'd it. As you were past all shame,--
COMINIUS:
Against what should ensue.
The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee!
Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
Being a Volsce, be that I am. Condition!
how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers

The people are the city.
This doth not so, for she divideth us:

From whence?
Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends,
Is Clarence, Henry, and his son young Edward,
With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
Now do you know the reason of this haste.

Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canst make
Your person most, that he would pawn his fortunes
DUCHESS OF YORK:

What should you fear?
So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,
Tremble at patience. You, my lord, best know,
Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward,
What torment I did find thee in; thy groans

Became a bull, and bellow'd; the green Neptune
So to enforce or qualify the laws

Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
CATESBY:
thou, Trot? Is the world as it was, man? Which is
So, the good horse is mine.
Nay, go not from us thus.
To all his lands and signories: when he's return'd,
Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
KING EDWARD IV:
and an express command, under penalty, to deliver
I warrant him consul.
For my wounds' sake, to give their suffrage: please you
This interchange of love, I here protest,
Whom we have left protectors of the king,

kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better love to
Was ever book containing such vile matter
They shall have wars and pay for their presumption.


But to defend his person from night-foes?

There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
Is it not yours?

Ay, when the special thing is well obtain'd,
Should say 'Be good to Rome,' they charged him even


Which as they kiss consume: the sweetest honey

There is a sickness


Marcius would have all from you; Marcius,
What proclamation, man?
My lord, he fears you mean no good to him.

and so locks her in embracing, as if she would pin
A fortnight and odd days.
down before their city Corioli; they nothing doubt
presently, and swoon for what's to come upon thee.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Then let us take a ceremonious leave
May that ground gape and swallow me alive,
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
But I return his sworn and mortal foe:
Why should I not now have the like success?
Than three great argosies; besides two galliases,
I live with bread like you, feel want,
LARTIUS:
Third Servingman:

A dollar.
Be it so; go back: the virtue of your name
Madam, we'll dance.
SEBASTIAN:
I am about, let them depart.
First Senator:
Go to my chamber; Put on clothes of mine.
Nothing so certain as your anchors, who

A thousand hearts are great within my bosom:
Peace, thou! and give King Henry leave to speak.
BUCKINGHAM:
And wring the awful sceptre from his fist,
I have loved thee,--
The prayers of priests nor times of sacrifice,
Let's want no discipline, make no delay,
CLIFFORD:
Half all Cominius' honours are to Marcius.
Go, rascals, go, and fetch my supper in.
BENVOLIO:
done, let the law go whistle: I warrant you.
As my trust was; which had indeed no limit,

He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself
And Warwick, doing what you gave in charge,
For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain.
When you depart, and save your thanks. How say you?
not in't; but they themselves are o' the mind, if it

As cause doth minister. Go call at Flavius' house,
TRANIO:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
'Sigeia tellus,' disguised thus to get your love;
LADY ANNE:

Which here you come to accuse.
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
ears ere it be out.
I'll pawn the little blood which I have left
And, ten to one, you'll meet him in the Tower.
Master:
Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me;
To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.
MENENIUS:

And I am going with instruction to him.
The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.
That perish'd by the way: thoughts are no subjects;
Divided in their dire division,
He prettily and aptly taunts himself:
As being got, your father then in France,
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:

As miserable by the life of thee
A lie; you are rough and hairy. Let me have no
And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
Is it your will Claudio shall die tomorrow?
Gives signal, of a goodly day to-morrow.
Not with fond shekels of the tested gold,
My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,



Will take again your queen as yours at first,
COMINIUS:
ANTONIO:
Bliss and goodness on you!

redeliver our authorities there
With what a sharp-provided wit he reasons!
Do they still fly to the Roman?
You have respected; stopp'd your ears against
You never shall, so help you truth and God!
Which often, thus, correcting thy stout heart,
Do you your office, or give up your place,
shoulder-bone; how he cried to me for help and said
But in this troublous time what's to be done?
I say thou liest, Camillo, and I hate thee,
DORCAS:


Denounced against thee, are all fall'n upon thee;
And after that trust to thee.
To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
That were the cause of my imprisonment.
But 'twas thy heavenly face that set me on.
It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
Not your gaoler, then,
Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down.
Yet looks he like a king: behold, his eye,
For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.
Measure for measure must be answered.
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
That from his loins no hopeful branch may spring,
And now in plainness do confess to thee,
Who wears my stripes impress'd upon him; that
Did ever so long live; no sorrow
Being our kinsman, if we revel much:
MERCUTIO:
I do not know that Englishman alive

But yet hear this: mistake me not; no life,
You Capulet; shall go along with me:
Keeper:
Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
Teach thy necessity to reason thus;

now. I shall crave your forbearance a little: may
You are like to have a thin and slender pittance.




I think, or in any religion.
Sir, you have done enough, and have perform'd

I speak amazedly; and it becomes
I can hardly believe that, since you know not what
Why in this woolvish toge should I stand here,
My waned state for Henry's regal crown.
But as a discontented friend, grief-shot

offence, Claudio?
As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,
And there's for twitting me with perjury.
ARIEL:
His friends still wrought reprieves for him: and,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
His venom tooth will rankle to the death:
Profess'd the contrary.
Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here;
An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!

Within whose circuit is Elysium
The leading of thine own revenges, take
These, as I learn, and such like toys as these


Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
'Tis now near night.
On their sustaining garments not a blemish,

That Angelo is an adulterous thief,


As venom toads, or lizards' dreadful stings.
'Tis even so; yet you are Warwick still.
And I'll renew me in his fall. But, hark!

In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,
Alas, alas!
Stay and be secret, and myself will go.
Commend my best obedience to the queen:
Then love-devouring death do what he dare;
Provost:
ADRIAN:
What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?
cabins: you do assist the storm.
Spakest thou of Juliet? how is it with her?
So have we all, of joy; for our escape
To yield your voices?

And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
BENVOLIO:
Whose settled visage and deliberate word
Are there no other tokens
Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues
Say, you ne'er had done't--
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
By heaven, I will not do thee so much ease.

I'll make my heaven in a lady's lap,
Fortunate mistress,--let my prophecy

O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight,
To wreak the love I bore my cousin
DUKE VINCENTIO:
With the least cause these his new honours, which
GREGORY:
Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath
Alone I did it. Boy!
Where the warlike Smalus,
GREMIO:

Into the blind cave of eternal night.
Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon

First Huntsman:
do't: I hold it the more knavery to conceal it;

O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
beggar. Then have we here young Dizy, and young
A merchant of incomparable wealth.
Like one that means his proper harm, in manacles,
Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue,
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you,
Why, such is love's transgression.
the most sufficient of your parish.
her father be very rich, any man is so very a fool
With your crown'd brother and these your contracted
Madam, if't please the queen to send the babe,
As words could make up vows: and, my good lord,
KATHARINA:

Our shame perpetual. Once a day I'll visit

You have been a scourge to her enemies, you have
With any scruple; your scope is as mine own
KING RICHARD III:
And yet my nature never in the fight
That Mowbray hath received eight thousand nobles
Signior Lucio, did not you say you knew that
Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
How now! is he dead already? or is it fear
What is it?
BIONDELLO:

Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
To be full like me: yet they say we are
Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you:
Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me

Be executed in his father's sight.
This sensible warm motion to become
with their left legs and not presume to touch a hair
No: first shall war unpeople this my realm;
And cited up a thousand fearful times,
Whilst he, from the one side to the other turning,

And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin,
POLIXENES:


Sweet Isabel, do yet but kneel by me;
Have you no countermand for Claudio yet,


3 KING HENRY VI

MENENIUS:
And the rank poison of the old will die.
My marvel and my message. To your court
Madam, and you, my mother, will you go

Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
All the contagion of the south light on you,
YORK:
The noble man have mercy.
Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend
That bate and beat and will not be obedient.

ARCHBISHOP OF YORK:

Who pass'd, methought, the melancholy flood,

Who hath descried the number of the foe?
My son George Stanley is frank'd up in hold:
I know it, uncle, and oppose not myself

No, indeed.
If the first that did the edict infringe
Carnally, she says.

That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.

So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch

KING HENRY VI:
Bred his hopes out of.
KING EDWARD IV:
Stop there, stop there.
Hold you there: farewell.
A king, perhaps, perhaps,--
Which done, God take King Edward to his mercy,
But here she comes; and now, Petruchio, speak.
To lose itself in a fog, where being three parts
This oath I willingly take and will perform.
With hate in those where I expect most love!
From all the impure blots and stains thereof;
You are sent for to the Capitol. 'Tis thought
What is thy name? and wherefore comest thou hither,

Do not repent these things, for they are heavier
That love the fundamental part of state
For did I but suspect a fearful man

KING HENRY VI:
Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short;
Will you swear
Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
LUCENTIO:
Call hither Barnardine and Claudio:
So, weeping, smiling, greet I thee, my earth,

BUCKINGHAM:
That you depart and lay no hands on me

For girls of nine, O, think what they have done
And twelve tight galleys: these I will assure her,
devotion than can render it him; and leaves
Had he done so to great and growing men,
Thy buried fear: herein all breathless lies
The other down, unseen and full of water:
We bodged again; as I have seen a swan
CORIOLANUS:
Who meets us here?  my niece Plantagenet
Have made it tedious, wearisome, and heavy

DUKE VINCENTIO:

A curse begin at very root on's heart,
Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be;
'What my great-grandfather and his grandsire got
No matter: get thee gone,
BAPTISTA:

Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
Is altogether just: therefore bring forth,
Lest thou increase the number of the dead;
Will you undo yourselves?
Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot.

It is your husband mock'd you with a husband.
But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
Ay, but thou canst do what I mean to ask.
Lord:
it was against our will.
shalt hear; 'tis in three parts.
ROMEO:
So may you lose your arms:
KING RICHARD III:

But rather wishing a more strict restraint
What manner of fellow was he that robbed you?
But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
Yea, but not change his spots: take but my shame.

Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front;
My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
But is it true? or else is it your pleasure,

For with a band of thirty thousand men
BRUTUS:
He mock'd us when he begg'd our voices.
Too great for what contains it. Boy! O slave!

Already; and, as I hear, the provost hath
He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he, as if
KING RICHARD III:
GRUMIO:
Hath power to keep you king in spite of all.
And then I'll speak a little.
Forbiddenly.
She may more suitors have and me for one.
Throng many doubtful hollow-hearted friends,
And pray thee take this mercy to provide
The bloody parliament shall this be call'd,
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from the city,
That trembles under his devouring paws;


for a commodity of brown paper and old ginger,
SICINIUS:
Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
I know this cannot be.
First Servingman:
Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,

They prosper best of all when I am thence.
But as successively from blood to blood,
And yet you halt not.
I cannot speak, nor think

PRINCE:
Wast born to bear? I was not made a horse;
In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
BRUTUS:
tying his new shoes with old riband? and yet thou
We must be brief when traitors brave the field.
silence, and work the peace of the present, we will
And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.
As with a man busied about decrees:
The smallest worm will turn being trodden on,
The sun that sear'd the wings of my sweet boy
As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd
GONZALO:

We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a
Alack. I love myself. Wherefore?  for any good
Who knows the lord protector's mind herein?
My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well
VOLUMNIA:
Worse and worse; she will not come! O vile,

O, very well; I have perused the note.
Second Gentleman:
Peter, stay at the gate.
DUKE OF YORK:
And know not now what name to call myself!
Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the
should not pass here; no, though it were as virtuous
Why, that was he.
In them I trust; for they are soldiers,
His cupbearer,--whom I from meaner form


The senators and patricians love him too:
The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw,

Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.
PROSPERO:
How far off lie these armies?
Hath made his meal on thee?
I'll to my rest.
AUTOLYCUS:
Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant;
Who please to come and hear. For life, I prize it
Good uncle, let this end where it begun;

VOLUMNIA:
But undergo this flight, make for Sicilia,
Seal what I end withal! This double worship,
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
A napkin steeped in the harmless blood


And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
I crave your honour's pardon.
Edward will always bear himself as king:
though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
So that, betwixt their tides and low names,

Mayor:
The army marvell'd at it, and, in the last,
Must needs appear offence.

How! traitor!
Look you, sir; here comes your ghostly father: do

Well, my dread lord; so must I call you now.
Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
HERMIONE:
sent thee thither. For debt, Pompey? or how?
Well, what then? what then?
Whether the tyranny be in his place,
They're here with me already, whispering, rounding

Lord Stafford's father, Duke of Buckingham,
As little joy may you suppose in me.
And watch your safety.
CALIBAN:

HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
I pray you, tell me what you meant by that.


Master of this design, did give us, with
GREMIO:
Set me against Aufidius and his Antiates;
Look, as I blow this feather from my face,


Your legs did better service than your hands.
Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
You shall have wine enough, my lord, anon.
But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks

With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
raised the wall and houses too.
As near the dawning, provost, as it is,
Go, go, poor soul, I envy not thy glory
LUCIO:
Would I admit; no name of magistrate;
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;
Which I protest against--I am assisted

To this submission. Yet I well remember
your people,
He cried upon it at the merest loss

Repair to the Capitol.

QUEEN MARGARET:
PROSPERO:
But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
To us that give you truly: by your patience,

But how or in what place I do not know.

This is my fault: as for the rest appeall'd,
My words express my purpose.
If Warwick knew in what estate he stands,
Attend upon Cominius to these wars.
Or sound so base a parle, my teeth shall tear
Where ever Englishman durst set his foot.
First Watchman:
LADY GREY:

Some parcels of their power are forth already,
Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath:
Kind uncle York, the latest news we hear

My name be blotted from the book of life,
To unbuild the city and to lay all flat.
in their very gesture; they looked as they had heard
Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham,
MARCIUS:
JULIET:
LORD STANLEY:
QUEEN MARGARET:

VINCENTIO:
'Tis a good hearing when children are toward.
BENVOLIO:
The note lies in's throat, if he say I said so.
dislikes, to flatter them for their love.
Go, play, boy, play: thy mother plays, and I
a-wooing, 'Priami,' is my man Tranio, 'regia,'

This but done,
Unto my cell.
to dine and sup with water and bran; I dare not for

Groom:
Mariner:
I have a heart as little apt as yours,


Thou loathed issue of thy father's loins!

Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
Servant:
And once again proclaim us King of England.
Edward, my lord, your son, our king, is dead.
The way it takes, cracking ten thousand curbs

In execution.
Do but mistake.
That thus affect'st a sheep-hook! Thou old traitor,
I'll look to like, if looking liking move:
The loss you have is but a son being king,

That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?
Whom I proclaim a man of truth, of mercy;
He throws without distinction. Give me leave,
come into any room in a tap-house, but I am drawn
Then never trust me, if I be afeard.
For I will love thee ne'er the less, my girl.
I have lived
LEONTES:
Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.
Tie leaden pounds to's heels. Proceed by process;
Who hath committed them?
By this we gather
QUEEN ELIZABETH:

Almost as like as eggs; women say so,
And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou livest.
With violent hefts. I have drunk,
Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object
The centre is not big enough to bear
YORK:
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
MENENIUS:
for the defence of a town, our general is excellent.
SICINIUS:
Allot thee for his lovely bed-fellow!
If sorrow can admit society,

I would Friar Peter--
Nay, I will give thee a kiss: now pray thee, love, stay.

DUKE VINCENTIO:

Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;

Know'st thou not any whom corrupting gold
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
Leads discontented steps in foreign soil,
He's with the king your father.
And, madam,
So that all hope is vain.
If wealthily, then happily in Padua.
To have him kill a king: poor trespasses,
GRUMIO:
You knew of his departure, as you know

ROMEO:
We need no more of your advice: the matter,
Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.
Ho, by your leave!
Ay, what else? and but I be deceived
And go, Sir Paris; every one prepare
And the true blood which peepeth fairly through't,
Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war;
What else? and that succession be determined.
ROMEO:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
So thrive my soul--
As the recomforted through the gates. Why, hark you!
I have not deserved it.
This dead king to the living king I'll bear
QUEEN MARGARET:

CAPULET:
Never, my lord; therefore prepare to die.
That's I, an't like your grace:
I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times,
Good Marcius home again.
VINCENTIO:
In name of lendings for your highness' soldiers,
Servant:
BUCKINGHAM:
Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead;
In good time.
KING EDWARD IV:
So did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest
GLOUCESTER:


What can you vouch against him, Signior Lucio?
First Murderer:
sitting, as I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in
have the first choice. Follow me, girls.
And slaughter'd those that were the means to help him;
That does affect it. Once more, fare you well.
KING RICHARD III:
Boy:
Poison hath residence and medicine power:
By many hands your father was subdued;

Or that we would, against the form of law,
RICHARD:
To voice him consul: lay the fault on us.
I'll in, to urge his hatred more to Clarence,
God keep the prince from all the pack of you!

JULIET:

Therefore, at your vantage,

Why, sir, what's your conceit in that?

O noble fellow!
But then I sigh; and, with a piece of scripture,
Which issued from my other angel husband
RIVERS:
But to be frank, and give it thee again.

'Thou liest' unto thee with a voice as free
There's no harm done.
I am for you again: pray you, sit by us,
ABHORSON:
Why, 'Jack, boy! ho! boy!' and as much news as
out of the court: they cherish it to make it stay
land-service, to see how the bear tore out his

Which if thou please to hide in this true bosom.
But first I'll do my errand. The good queen,
GLOUCESTER:

KATHARINA:

Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you:
WARWICK:
VOLUMNIA:




Thou lovest me not; for, brother, if thou didst,
Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast,
Servant:
MENENIUS:
I' the end admire, where ladies shall be frighted,
Nay, never bear me hence, dispatch me here,
You weary those that refresh us: pray, let's see
PRINCE:
Such duty as the subject owes the prince
FRIAR LAURENCE:
of our way, I say.

CLEOMENES:
PETRUCHIO:
Of noble blood in this declining land.
None but for some and yet all different.

fire, or shall I complain on thee to our mistress,

Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;
What you will have it named, even that it is;
GRUMIO:
Should ask, if Katharina should be his wife,
In honour follows Coriolanus.
if you should die before him, where's her dower?
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing
you.
wipe their lips.
KING RICHARD II:
There was a time when all the body's members
Here, noble lord: what is thy will with her?

confirmed countenance. I saw him run after a gilded

And what I want it boots not to complain.
due of a bawd, why, 'tis his right: bawd is he
ISABELLA:
To kindle their dry stubble; and their blaze
MENENIUS:
May hourly trample on their sovereign's head;
PROSPERO:
Let me for this my life-time reign as king.
MIRANDA:

Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
In the remembrance of a weeping queen.
O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
DUCHESS OF YORK:

Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman:
Were testimonies against his worth and credit
Second Servant:

As Ovid be an outcast quite abjured:
We cannot, sir, we are undone already.
To choose you a queen: she shall not be so young
No, to White-Friars; there attend my coining.
Clown:

Bight Phoebus in his strength--a malady
QUEEN:
direct answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio
And thou, brave Oxford, wondrous well beloved,
Then well one more may fair Bianca have:
Enforce him with his envy to the people,
Sicinius Velutus, and I know not--'Sdeath!
A horse whereon the governor doth ride,
From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept
Infer fair England's peace by this alliance.

Save that we do the denunciation lack

Wondrous! ay, I warrant you, and not without his

GLOUCESTER:


Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
Let me put in your minds, if you forget,
Incertain lookers on. What were more holy
Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?
wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
Had not you come upon your cue, my lord

Swear then by something that thou hast not wrong'd.
Farewell, thou woful welcomer of glory!

Who having pinch'd a few and made them cry,
What makes this change?
She is as forward of her breeding as
Where rude misgovern'd hands from windows' tops
Recover breath; tell us how near is danger,
I will not trust you, sir.
There to give up their power. If you can, pace your wisdom
Head, and butt! an hasty-witted body

And bonny Kate and sometimes Kate the curst;
Would she begin a sect, might quench the zeal

For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
Loath to depose the child, Your brother's son;
Hail, noble Marcius!
Fool, of thyself speak well: fool, do not flatter.

Your tributary drops belong to woe,

She could have run and waddled all about;
Yet so much is my poverty of spirit,
Alas! what poor ability's in me
dismiss the controversy bleeding the more entangled
SOMERSET:
Adieu, good neighbour.
PERDITA:
Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
A laughter.
Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd:


Pedant:
In the base court? Come down? Down, court!
Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound

Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
Welcome father.
Be grafted to your relish. Yet welcome, warriors:
GLOUCESTER:
The king my father wreck'd.
thou ask me why, sufficeth, my reasons are both good
you give me touch my palate adversely, I make a
Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be king.

Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;
now with, 'knocking at the gate'?
Only, good master, while we do admire
Or rudely visit them in parts remote,

To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
Lord Marshal:
Then, Isabel, live chaste, and, brother, die:
PETRUCHIO:
Here is my hand, and here I firmly vow
BRUTUS:
Second Murderer:
other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: what
CLEOMENES:

MERCUTIO:
Or, with the rest, where is your darling Rutland?
That he did stay?
The greatest strength and power he can make,
Whose hand soever lanced their tender hearts,

Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom.
These eyes that never shed remorseful tear,
You may, sir.
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Lord:

PAULINA:
Here is the sister of the man condemn'd
POMPEY:

HASTINGS:
Or manage it to part these men with me.
Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,
And so, God give you quiet rest to-night!
KING HENRY VI:
Provost:


Ah, Exeter!
He whined and roar'd away your victory,
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;
ESCALUS:

CLARENCE:
have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings
ANGELO:
But since you teach me how to flatter you,
false of heart that way; and that he knew, I warrant
LUCIO:
The patroness of heavenly harmony:
ANGELO:
And joy that thou becomest King Henry's friend.
Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?

LEONTES:
Sir, those cold ways,

his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous;
For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps,
Marcus.' 'He killed my father.'
Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
Than in my greatness covet to be hid,
Is the obedience to a master, one
After the moon. If thou art rich, thou'rt poor;
What likelihood of his amendment, lords?

Turn you the key, and know his business of him;
infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly


Lead'st first to win some vantage.
The rest, that love me, rise and follow me.
now.
Cease; no more.
PETRUCHIO:


And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
Sir, you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your
'Tis nothing less: conceit is still derived
thee; but being assured none but myself could move
I have with such provision in mine art
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary,


Of King Polixenes, it should here be laid,
You will not own it.
HENRY PERCY:
First Lady:
lesser linen. My father named me Autolycus; who
I would they were, that I might die at once;
Must it be great, and as his person's mighty,
Exeter, so will I.
The accuser and the accused freely speak:
First Gentleman:
habit, but your words show you a madman. Why, sir,
worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it


But not, as I am, royal.
For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.

Whose compass is no bigger than thy head;
CORIOLANUS:
To be spoke to but by the recorder.
Despair not, madam.
Who hath a story ready for your ear.
The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?
O let no noble eye profane a tear
BENVOLIO:

Unmeritable shuns your high request.
Ourselves, our wives, and children, on our knees,
KING EDWARD IV:
There to be crowned England's royal king:
First Senator:
To God of heaven, King Richard and to me;
Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death,
That breathed upon this earth a Christian;
Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
As he is proud to do't.
He'll never hear him.
Of officer and office, set all hearts i' the state
Or modest Dian circled with her nymphs,

Your ignorance, which finds not till it feels,
WARWICK:
Servant:
Had I more name for badness.
Could man so blench?

March on, march on, since we are up in arms;
Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
CORIOLANUS:
For why, the senseless brands will sympathize

All souls that will be safe fly from my side,
Would fain have come with me to meet your grace,
ANGELO:
HORTENSIO:
Plantagenet, of thee and these thy sons,

Thy exercise hath been too violent for
If God will be revenged for this deed.
Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver:
I spy life peering; but I dare not say
O, good madam, there can be none yet.
My gracious lady, go;

Ratcliff!
I charge thee in the princes name, obey.
First Musician:
LUCIO:
True sword to sword, I'll potch at him some way
Grant me this boon.
What do ye talk?

A brittle glory shineth in this face:
Like interrupted waters and o'erbear
For which my sinews shall be stretch'd upon him.
I thought to crush him in an equal force,
CORIOLANUS:
Where it did mark, it took; from face to foot
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
That thou shalt do no murder: and wilt thou, then,
And not be Richard that hath done all this.
Gentlewoman:
GONZALO:
And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe.
On me, that halt and am unshapen thus?
And rather than it shall, I will be free
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,

ISABELLA:
Then, since this earth affords no joy to me,
Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass.
I would he had continued to his country

From thee, even from thy virtue!
That should by private order else have died,
The common people by numbers swarm to us.
POLIXENES:
Thy murderous falchion smoking in his blood;
KING RICHARD III:

But come, my lord, let us away.
Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace

GREEN:
Page:
Look, what I speak, or do, or think to do,
Why, shall the people give
Now, fellows, you are welcome.

Which must be even as swiftly follow'd as
Now, afore God--God forbid I say true!--
Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
MOPSA:
BAPTISTA:
SICINIUS:
Which she shall purchase with still lasting war.
SLY:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
ROMEO:

The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
Better it is to die, better to starve,
ROMEO:
ARIEL:


Tongue-tied, our queen?
the state, and usurp the beggary he was never born
Nurse:
They are dissolved: hang 'em!
And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day;
Who should have died when Claudio lost his head;
But stay, here come the gardeners:
I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
Who knows not where a wasp does
It sounds no more: and sure, it waits upon
STANLEY:
CLAUDIO:
Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.

And, on my trust, a man that never yet
Give me the boy: I am glad you did not nurse him:
PROSPERO:
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
And do as adversaries do in law,
And power, unto itself most commendable,
You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace,

FLORIZEL:

And furbish new the name of John a Gaunt,
TRANIO:
I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.

hath been since an ape-bearer; then a
KATHARINA:
Before her troth-plight: say't and justify't.
Thou troublest me; am not in the vein.
Madam, we will attend your grace.
LEONTES:
I believe thee; for I think thou never wast where

Misconstrue us in him and wail his death.
I will avouch in presence of the king:
O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones;--
My name is call'd Vincentio; my dwelling Pisa;
ROMEO:
Are you call'd forth from out a world of men

Last night, I hear, they lay at Northampton;

You said so much before, and yet you fled.
A warrant for his execution.

Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,
So it is.
It cannot fail but by
Your brother dies to-morrow; be content.
Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world,


Might have found easy fines: but there to end
Please your highness, posts
And in the very pangs of death he cried,
KING HENRY VI:


What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
KING HENRY VI:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Welcome, ladies, Welcome!
To wash this blood off from my guilty hand:
CLAUDIO:
May I change these garments?
Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,
Of Mantua.
Come forth, I say! there's other business for thee:
Lesser his person than an ill report;
YORK:
Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
KING HENRY VI:
ANGELO:
The king's will be perform'd!

GONZALO:
And you will rather show our general louts
This happy breed of men, this little world,
The one his purple blood right well resembles;
With all prerogative: hence his ambition growing--
PAULINA:
ISABELLA:
I am as ignorant in that as you
I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,
Methinks these peers of France should smile at that.
The silence often of pure innocence


Provost:

Only make trial what your love can do
Volsce:
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
ESCALUS:
His face still combating with tears and smiles,
First Citizen:
ROMEO:
Then give me leave to read philosophy,

To-morrow, then, I judge a happy day.
of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof.
CORIOLANUS:
O, let him marry her.
Make dust our paper and with rainy eyes
Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood,
LEONTES:

PETRUCHIO:

Then, seeing 'twas he that made you to depose,

Pedant:
Hath overta'en mine act.
Disorder, horror, fear and mutiny
POLIXENES:
fitted for 't.
Draw near,


But you must trouble him with lewd complaints.

O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it.
JULIET:
Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters;
By your renouncement an immortal spirit,

Of what degree soever, with his brother.
Clown:

Thereof to be inform'd, imprison't not

QUEEN MARGARET:
O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,

Do you hear?
And twenty caged nightingales do sing:
If ancient sorrow be most reverend,
One raised in blood, and one in blood establish'd;
And, Norfolk, throw down his.
I pray God he be not, I say.
Go bear this lance to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk.
Of dreaded justice, but on the ministers
PETRUCHIO:
Is gone to meet the king, who lately landed
That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower,
I' the way of flattery further.
So did we all. But, come, let's home.
In a most dear particular. He call'd me father:
Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I am
I had a brother, then. Heaven keep your honour!
Had been more merciful. Come on, poor babe:
Help, help, help! here's a madman will murder me.
This your request
Pray, let us go.
Third Servingman:
Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes,

Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
Which I did think with slower foot came on,


When one but of my ordinance stood up

First Servingman:
CLARENCE:
KATHARINA:
That's likewise part of my intelligence; but, I
That do distribute it; in the name o' the people
KING RICHARD III:
Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
Well, then, farewell.
For hither we have broken in by force.
ISABELLA:

First Citizen:
To make a stale of me amongst these mates?
It will be dangerous to go on: no further.
Most sweet voices!
Which craves as desperate an execution.
Grandam, one night, as we did sit at supper,
I know you'ld fain be gone. An officer!
Is for my better grace. Adieu, my lord:

Servant:
Hath promised me to help me to another,
I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
Urge neither charity nor shame to me:
WARWICK:
the physician: the most sovereign prescription in

Who is't that goes with me? Beseech your highness,
PETRUCHIO:
More bitterly could I expostulate,
lady a merited benefit; redeem your brother from
DUCHESS OF YORK:
KING RICHARD III:
MOPSA:
with interchange of gifts, letters, loving

And ask'd the mayor what meant this wilful silence:
'Tis some odd humour pricks him to this fashion;

The sweetest sleep, and fairest-boding dreams
What comfort, man? how is't with aged Gaunt?
RICHARD:
And not a tinker nor Christophero Sly.
GLOUCESTER:

Have mercy, Jesu!--Soft! I did but dream.
There's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but
The needful bits and curbs to headstrong weeds,
Will wing me to some wither'd bough and there
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
GREMIO:
For though mine enemy thou hast ever been,
Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did,
home: he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?

Thou show'st a noble vessel: what's thy name?

These three lead on this preparation
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
For thou exist'st on many a thousand grains

The people are incensed against him.
To Bona, sister to the King of France.
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
As I had rather hide me from my greatness,
I am to get a man,--whate'er he be,
Second Keeper:
Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave:
CAMILLO:
For one to thrust his hand between his teeth,

HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Third Servingman:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
He shall here find his friends with horse and men
Volsce:
That copest with death himself to scape from it:

PETRUCHIO:
MENENIUS:
From when this stream through muddy passages
You shall not go: a lady's 'Verily' 's
With manacles thorough our streets, or else
With accusations, as I hear, more strong
butterfly: and when he caught it, he let it go
LADY CAPULET:
renowned brother, in his love toward her ever most


And be you silent and attentive too,
Than what I know, yet shall the oracle

LEONTES:
Will or exceed the common or be caught
see, there is such unity in the proofs. The mantle

Third Servant:
When daffodils begin to peer,
My gracious father, by your kingly leave,
EMILIA:
Upon their ancient malice will forget
man for coughing in the street, because he hath
That noble honour'd lord, is fear'd and loved?
I mean the Earl of Wiltshire, Bushy, Green.

conspectuities glean out of this character, if I be
VIRGILIA:
DUKE OF YORK:
Limit each leader to his several charge,
Thy grief is but thy absence for a time.
CURTIS:
To lay one in, another out to have.
And mark my greeting well; for what I speak
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
GONZALO:
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
CAMILLO:
Are made already mothers: by my count,
O how that name befits my composition!
So shalt thou sinew both these lands together;
As often as we eat. By the elements,
Hard-favour'd Richard? Richard, where art thou?
CLAUDIO:
Uncertain way of gain! But I am in
ISABELLA:

The senate's courtesy? Let deeds express

To the discontented members, the mutinous parts
LEONTES:
Ay, with my heart
KING EDWARD IV:

Go thou to Friar Penker; bid them both
You had more beard when I last saw you; but your
Twenty crowns.
You promised knighthood to our forward son:
Tying him to aught; so putting him to rage,
Stay, you that bear the corse, and set it down.
FRIAR LAURENCE:
PRINCE EDWARD:
His gracious pleasure any way therein:

DUCHESS OF YORK:
To make coals cheap,--a noble memory!
More grave and wrinkled than the aims and ends
Ay, ay. thou wouldst be gone to join with Richmond:
The least of you shall share his part thereof.

To hurl upon their heads that break his law.


DUKE VINCENTIO:
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
Dost thou forget
MARIANA:
Mortality and mercy in Vienna
GLOUCESTER:
Of Mantua, sir? marry, God forbid!
gain by you.
Had I a glass, I would.
To see him any more,--cast your good counsels
The valiant heart is not whipt out of his trade.
Vaughan, and all that have miscarried

What, have I pinch'd you, Signior Gremio?
I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
With age and altering rheums? can he speak? hear?
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.

gross: inkles, caddisses, cambrics, lawns: why, he
Here are the keys, there sits the duke asleep:
VIRGILIA:

DUKE VINCENTIO:


This letter he early bid me give his father,
And I choose Clarence only for protector.
Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words?
Brother, farewell: I will unto the king;
the streets,
Her wagoner a small grey-coated gnat,
Being pent from liberty, as I am now,
GLOUCESTER:
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
And why so, my lord?
Then 'twas my turn to fly, and now 'tis thine.
Have I heard groan and drop: then know me not,
One grave shall be for both: upon them shall
Withdraw you hence, my lord, I'll follow you.
My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!
We pout upon the morning, are unapt


The other part reserved I by consent,
Why, every fault's condemn'd ere it be done:

And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds,
be this morning executed, and his head born to Angelo.
Until a time may serve: for present vengeance,
I'll reconcile me to Polixenes,
That skins the vice o' the top. Go to your bosom;
The value of her own: 'twere a concealment
Bestride my threshold. Why, thou Mars! I tell thee,
All for my master's sake, Lucentio.

HASTINGS:
As violently as hasty powder fired
To disproportion me in every part,
GONZALO:
A sail, a sail!
AUTOLYCUS:
POMPEY:
wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a

O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!
If either of you both love Katharina,
QUEEN MARGARET:
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
Here come the lords.
JULIET:
You will think you have made no offence, if the duke
By having him, making yourself no less.
How now, fair lords! What fare? what news abroad?
Comest thou because the anointed king is hence?
Then my account I well may, give,
And spurn upon thee, beggar, for thy boldness.
I do remember well where I should be,
That ever wretched age hath look'd upon.
Go, see him out at gates, and follow him,
DUKE VINCENTIO:

Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
And unsuspected court her by herself.
JULIET:
Dost thou detest her therefore?
ISABELLA:
PARIS:
GRUMIO:
He hath no friends but who are friends for fear.
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
He'ld make an end of thy posterity.
The sly slow hours shall not determinate
Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
And call me father? better burn it now
hope to come upon them in the heat of their division.
First Senator:
BIONDELLO:
Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
KING RICHARD II:
HERMIONE:
KING RICHARD III:

TRANIO:
MENENIUS:

O, good! convey? conveyers are you all,
For this time, all the rest depart away:
What is this?
Pray God we may make haste, and come too late!
Or fortune given me measure of revenge.
Tullus Aufidius then had made new head?
have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you
Dare not relate.
And time it is, when raging war is done,

As were our England in reversion his,


As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad--
'Tis south the city mills--bring me word thither
WARWICK:
CAMILLO:
KATHARINA:
But I will keep her ignorant of her good,
The gaoler to his pity. I kneel'd before him;
Since thou deniest the gentle king to speak.
Are still together, who twin, as 'twere, in love
I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio,
That in a twink she won me to her love.
To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born?
SICINIUS:
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
'Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth.

Have done the time more benefit and graced
ELBOW:
KING LEWIS XI:
To breakfast once forth of my company.
Neither.

Shepherd:
wear their plackets where they should bear their

CATESBY:
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
Many a battle have I won in France,
Hath any well-advised friend proclaim'd
Though fortune's malice overthrow my state,
I warrant you, my lord.
Look, and thou shalt see.
Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty,
He dies to me again when talk'd of: sure,
Ah, know you not the city favours them,
Thou hast faced many things.
Deservedly confined into this rock,

We'll quickly rouse the traitors in the same.
If we be not, show us the hand of God

And shamefully by you my hopes are butcher'd.
First Keeper:
MAMILLIUS:
ROMEO:
What you have done--before our army hear me.
Yes; if there were no other excuse why they should
And happy always was it for that son
Nurse:
And by an eminent body that enforced
3 KING HENRY VI
May your grace speak of it?

What you as from your father shall deliver,
Be not so hasty to confound my meaning:
What noise there, ho?
Hortensio, hark:
For God's sake, let not us two be behind;
LEONTES:

First Keeper:
With all our harts.
PETRUCHIO:

And his enforcement of the city wives;


All:
To wit, an indigested and deformed lump,

QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Not sick, although I have to do with death,
And many more of noble fame and worth:
ISABELLA:
Excepting one, I would he were the best

Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
he tell us his noble deeds, we must also tell him
At Pembroke, or at Harford-west, in Wales.
COMINIUS:
Been both at Delphos, and from thence have brought



Fear, and not love, begets his penitence:
GLOUCESTER:
LARTIUS:

Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,
The town is ta'en!


COMINIUS:


Who lack not virtue, no, nor power, but that
We will be there before the stream o' the people;
Second Citizen:
as the morality of imprisonment. What's thy
DORCAS:


know to be his character, the majesty of the
GLOUCESTER:
MENENIUS:
We know your drift: speak what?
KING HENRY VI:
LADY ANNE:
Out three years old.
Thy head, thy sovereign; one that cares for thee,
JULIET:
What lady-she her lord. You'll stay?
And here's the heart that triumphs in their death
And all things change them to the contrary.
And level of my brain, plot-proof; but she
Since I have ever follow'd thee with hate,
You are too absolute;
JULIET:

'Tis the way
Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,



Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news;



Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
GLOUCESTER:
little finger, there is some hope the ladies of
You have said you will not grant us any thing;

And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
She was the fairest creature in the world;
Being the right idea of your father,
And say what thou seest yond.


Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,


your honour.


notorious bawd.
LUCENTIO:
opposite. Now, to seem to affect the malice and
Turn from their office to black funeral;
A man well known throughout all Italy.
He would not stay at your petitions: made
YORK:

Come, come, you're mocking: we will have no telling.

Thou dotard! thou art woman-tired, unroosted
My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,
That envied his receipt; even so most fitly
In very good time: speak not you to him till we
arithmetic! Why the devil came you between us? I
O worthy prince, dishonour not your eye
KING RICHARD II:
Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
A prosperous south-wind friendly, we have cross'd,
YORK:

That is, were I under the terms of death,
What I have written to you?
He bears him like a portly gentleman;

Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so;

Nay, godded me, indeed. Their latest refuge
And his well-chosen bride.
And those that you'll procure from King Leontes--
not wounded? he was wont to come home wounded.
CLARENCE:
BIANCA:
To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
I am question'd by my fears, of what may chance
Left I his title out.
Against him first: he's a very dog to the commonalty.
To your good prayers will scarcely say amen.
'Tis almost morning; I would have thee gone:

Drawn with a team of little atomies


Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords?
The matter?
WARWICK:
LUCIO:

The want thereof makes thee abominable:

bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I sprang not

Nor no one here; for curses never pass

Shouting their emulation.
Do what you can, yours will not be entreated.
POLIXENES:
My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
My royal father, cheer these noble lords
Whom with a crack'd heart I have sent to Rome,
Welcome, how agreed?
When I arrived and heard thee, that made gape
Is leaden servitor to dull delay;
His going I could frame to serve my turn,

Thy father's ground.
To the disgrace and downfall of your house:
Which comes to me in name of fault, I must not
Being moved, he will not spare to gird the gods.

The clogging burthen of a guilty soul.
Think'st thou it honourable for a noble man
SICINIUS:
POLIXENES:
But Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom
Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
The unstooping firmness of my upright soul:

He is dishonour'd by a man which ever
Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably: come,
MENENIUS:
Within the guilty closure of thy walls
First Lord:
KING RICHARD II:

For God he knows, and you may partly see,
Whom should he follow but his natural king?
CLAUDIO:
To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
Here comes the Lady Paulina's steward: he can
Here's goodly work!
And not with such a cruel threatening look.
ISABELLA:
Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest,
How you can frown than spend a fawn upon 'em,
Hadst thou but loved him half so well as I,
You taught me language; and my profit on't
Did ever Dian so become a grove


A lullaby too rough: I never saw
Where's Cotus? my master calls
And you can witness with me this is true.
That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
For 'tis most dangerous.
With this night's revels and expire the term
Than misery itself would give; rewards
TRANIO:
WARWICK:
ESCALUS:
Who, with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour,
Tutus Aufidius, is he within your walls?


instructions may be your guide. Let this Barnardine
That I will show you shining at this feast,



To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
Thou let'st thy fortune sleep--die, rather; wink'st


There is the man of my soul's hate, Aufidius,
house of her! Come on.
Then, by myself--
Come hither, Mariana.
Nay, let them follow:

You are gentlemen of brave metal; you would lift
Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
Are at their beads, 'tis hard to draw them thence,

Shall lose the royalty of England's throne.

LEONTES:
POLIXENES:


white wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a
Which should undo more doing: ay, and thou,
Which here we waken to our country's good,
To three thousand dolours a year.
O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous!
And all at once, once more a happy farewell.



And laboured all I could to do him right;
It is my fashion, when I see a crab.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
First Murderer:
Except like curs to tear us all to pieces.
A jewel in a ten-times-barr'd-up chest
Think that thy babes were fairer than they were,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Why, how now, Claudio! whence comes this restraint?
What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:

GONZALO:

Like doth quit like, and MEASURE still FOR MEASURE.
Did you perceive
PETRUCHIO:
To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.
Prove it before these varlets here, thou honourable
O monstrous, monstrous! and so falls it out
I be not thine. To this I am most constant,
Goes all decorum.
To take on me to keep and kill thy heart.
That's a certain text.

Than Bolingbroke's return to England;
DUKE VINCENTIO:

According to the fashion and the time.
ISABELLA:
I can bear my part; you must know 'tis my
To Italy; and there at Venice gave
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
Than Edward will for tidings of my death.
And but thou love me, let them find me here:
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
Would seem but modest: therefore, I beseech you
An I might live to see thee married once,
The thought of my revenges that way
PARIS:
Will never do him good, not one of you.
First Watchman:
When she did suckle Hector, look'd not lovelier
And stand upon my common part with those

And with their helps only defend ourselves;
And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.


Do come with words as medicinal as true,
MENENIUS:
The noisome weeds, which without profit suck
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
What says King Bolingbroke? will his majesty
It may be right; but you are i' the wrong
EDWARD:
'Tear him to pieces.' 'Do it presently.' 'He kill'd

written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
A good construction. I raised him, and I pawn'd

The ditty does remember my drown'd father.
LORD ROSS:
If I might die within this hour, I have lived
The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.

And patient underbearing of his fortune,
Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Thy state of law is bondslave to the law; And thou--
BAPTISTA:
ISABELLA:
And leave not one alive, I live in hell.

Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are
But dead they are, and devilish slave, by thee.

Pardon me, Margaret; pardon me, sweet son:
As confident as is the falcon's flight
And brought your prisoner to your palace gate.

His answer was, he would unto the stews,
CORIOLANUS:
Such eyes the widows in Corioli wear,
To accuse this worthy man, but, in foul mouth
Two days ago. This jealousy
JULIET:
She may, Lord Rivers! why, who knows not so?
Filth as thou art, with human care, and lodged thee
And, through the cranks and offices of man,
Endured of her, for whom you bid like sorrow.
MENENIUS:
Match not the high perfection of my loss:
And what of him, Tranio?


I will omit no opportunity
MARCIUS:
Come on, my masters, each man take his stand:
I'll be supposed upon a book, his face is the worst

Then fare you well, for I will hence again:

And mean to make her queen of England.
Upon his passion; let myself and fortune
KING EDWARD IV:
Second Musician:
ANGELO:
On Wednesday next we solemnly set down
I have not that alacrity of spirit,
TRANIO:
ears a fork'd one!

WARWICK:
That could conceive a gross and foolish sire
Lord:

For he that interrupts him shall not live.
He'ld sow't with nettle-seed.

POLIXENES:

GREMIO:
ISABELLA:
DUKE OF YORK:
than the master: if any where I have them, 'tis by
KATHARINA:
Enough, my lord.
Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey. Farewell: go, say I
Ariel, thy charge

I' the shoulder and i' the left arm there will be
To soften Angelo: and that's my pith of business
I speak no more than what my soul intends;
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
GLOUCESTER:
That winter should cut off our spring-time so.
Gremio, 'tis known my father hath no less
Yet this good comfort bring I to your grace,
GRUMIO:
Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio,
Should, if a coward heard her speak these words,
So, your opinion is, Aufidius,
Never till then.
Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire,
That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio.

Save men's opinions and my living blood,
We shall be short in our provision:
Second murderer:
I rather wish you foes than hollow friends:
If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
Who by his prowess conquered all France:
And let go by the actor.
LUCIO:
All things that we ordained festival,
called before us. Away with her to prison! Go to;
Against their will. But who comes here?
I long till Edward fall by war's mischance,
Here's to my love!
And thou usurp'st my father's right and mine.
He might have kept that glory to this day;
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
Oxford, redoubted Pembroke, Sir James Blunt,
LORD ROSS:
Nurse:
First Gentleman:
How! I inform them!
The crown of England, father, which is yours.
I will perform it to enfranchise you.

Than we bring men to comfort them:
I pardon him.
Where is Lucentio?
The true succeeders of each royal house,
be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra a gipsy;
AUTOLYCUS:

I'll win our ancient right in France again,
To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' the air,

Provost:
We were elected theirs, Marcius is worthy
Stay, yet look back with me unto the Tower.
Look, how this ring encompasseth finger.
First, as you know, my house within the city
To entertain these fair well-spoken days,
It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
But theirs is sweetened with the hope to have
Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
Weigh'd between loathness and obedience, at
Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends,
I'll help thee: come, lend me thy hand.
How now! what news with you?
With his mail'd hand then wiping, forth he goes,
Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,
BENVOLIO:

Can heaven be so envious?
A time before we came unto this cell?
JOHN OF GAUNT:
CLEOMENES:
First Citizen:
This and much more, much more than twice all this,
And use of service, none; contract, succession,
GRUMIO:
Shall see us rising in our throne, the east,
At knowing of thy choice.
He was indeed the duke; out o' the substitution

Amen!
Until you see her die again; for then
For she's not froward, but modest as the dove;
Too modest are you;
discover his government.

No, by my life.

withdrawing.
AUTOLYCUS:
By words or blows here let us win our right.
We have.
All murder'd: for within the hollow crown
Second Murderer:
Of neither, girl:
Shepherd:
Relish a truth like us, inform yourselves
In God's name what are you, and how came you hither?
To watch the night in storms, the day in cold,

MENENIUS:
Against the Duke of Clarence, but have been
For, to yourself, what you do know, you must.
That he should hither come as this dire night,
LEONTES:


Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?

Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang?


My joy of liberty is half eclipsed.

And overmuch consumed his royal person:
PETRUCHIO:
Forgot you! no, sir: I could not forget you, for I
For curious I cannot be with you,
BUCKINGHAM:
Thus doth he force the swords of wicked men
Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
KING RICHARD III:
My lord, most villanously; believe it.
ANTONIO:
Are they that I would have thee deal upon:

MOPSA:
And, though unskilful, why not Ned and I
This is a thing that Angelo knows not; for he this
Under the canopy.
honesty to acquaint the king withal, I would not
My brother did love Juliet,
Against the Volsces, for they had so vilely
Wise! why, no question but he was.
have heard it was ever his manner to do so.
A merchant of great traffic through the world,
HASTINGS:
On whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe my prayer
To be so bouted in this royal presence?

Let me entreat you speak the former language.
I have borne this business.
here,--this, who, like a block, hath denied my
So early walking did I see your son:

Thou art up-roused by some distemperature;
But Hercules himself must yield to odds;

Camillo has betray'd me;

That look into me with considerate eyes:
Enough then for your wonder. But, come on,

fulfilled: she lifted the princess from the earth,
FERDINAND:
First Servant:
Why, say, fair queen, whence springs this deep despair?
Am I but three inches? why, thy horn is a foot; and
I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her;
Welcome, my lord what is the news?
can lick their fingers.
That had not God, for some strong purpose, steel'd
Release my brother; and, after much debatement,

My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's;
Would seem in me to affect speech and discourse;
Fast foe to the plebeii, your voices might

Kin to Jove's thunder, so surprised my sense.

lent him visitation.

Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven
Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun:
LUCIO:
Speak with me, pity me, open the door.
KATHARINA:
Here did she fall a tear; here in this place
Graybeard, thy love doth freeze.

I know him well: you are welcome for his sake.
take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
NATHANIEL:
Within Corioli gates: where he hath won,
KING EDWARD IV:

Worthy sir, thou bleed'st;
And then down falls again.
O'er ladies ' lips, who straight on kisses dream,

comes there any more of it?
HENRY PERCY:

PRINCE EDWARD:

POLIXENES:
CATESBY:
But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds,
Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.
That I must yield my body to the earth
Farewell: the leisure and the fearful time
Hath set the women on to this complaint:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
festival purses; and had not the old man come in
Both have I spill'd; O would the deed were good!
bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet
Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.
KING EDWARD IV:

Nay, good goose, bite not.
That's my noble master!
To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.'
Clown:
Since every Jack became a gentleman
Who? Camillo?
Proclaim you are no less! Can you so stead me
'Fore me, this fellow speaks! What then? what then?
So doth the cony struggle in the net.
I saw our party to their trenches driven,
LEONTES:
And son unto the king, who, heavens directing,
Though Richard my life's counsel would not hear,
them talk of a fardel and I know not what: but he
Ay, millstones; as be lesson'd us to weep.
not suffer me: she drops booties in my mouth. I am

And Edward, my poor son, at Tewksbury.

Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,
Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,
Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP:

To-morrow you set on.
That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood,
Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
And I myself secure in grace and favour.
And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust Ye?
Thy honour, state and seat is due to me.
And come to Padua, careless of your life?

Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest;
'Twas you we laughed at.

But she's best married that dies married young.
That's but a cavil: he is old, I young.




Right son to the right Vincentio;
By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with

ISABELLA:

It is spoke freely out of many mouths--
The unity the king thy brother made


First Gentleman:
LUCIO:


When he would force it? Sure, it is no sin,
PETRUCHIO:

That should but rive an oak. Why dost not speak?
BUSHY:

GLOUCESTER:
Say, Somerville, what says my loving son?
GLOUCESTER:

Oh for our father, for our dear lord Clarence!
Cominius, no.
But what he did being childish?
LUCIO:
KING RICHARD III:

Didst thou not say he comes?
ROMEO:
That to the observer doth thy history
Fairly offer'd.
Upon my life, my lord, I'll under-take it;


Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,
What, up and down, carved like an apple-tart?
My master knows not but I am gone hence;

Call it so.


YORK:
That which but seems unlike: 'tis not impossible
And, as we hear, march on to fight with us.
Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou livest,
ISABELLA:
BIONDELLO:

Are spectacled to see him: your prattling nurse
Of Pisa, sir; son to Vincentio.
I'ld with thee every foot.
On some apparent danger seen in him
And in the power of us the tribunes, we,
Well, let them rest. Come hither, Catesby.
CORIOLANUS:
I pray thee, peace: my soul is full of sorrow.
This is a poor epitome of yours,
Take thou the fee, and tell him what I say;


MENENIUS:
The rest were ragged, old, and beggarly;
Mine ears against your suits are stronger than

And to that end we wish'd your lord-ship here,
Clown:
But, stay: what news? Why comest thou in such post?
Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
The queen with all the northern earls and lords
makes a man a coward: a man cannot steal, but it

How more unfortunate than all living women
Which once perform'd, let all the world say no,
Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
ANTIGONUS:

That did but show thee, of a fool, inconstant
ROMEO:
MENENIUS:

Come, sir, I know what I know.
Which, by the heavens' assistance and your strength,
In braving arms against thy sovereign.
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
And never brandish more revengeful steel
We will go walk a little in the orchard,
Thereof most worthy, were I the fairest youth
GLOUCESTER:
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.
LEONTES:
execution: you are condemned, our general has sworn
MERCUTIO:
TRANIO:
Lechery?
burthen and how she longed to eat adders' heads and
I see thy glory like a shooting star
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
Which in a set hand fairly is engross'd,
GLOUCESTER:
Your brother's son shall never reign our king;
Nor cheer of mind, that I was wont to have.
BISHOP OF ELY:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
O place and greatness! millions of false eyes
Withhold revenge, dear God! 'tis not my fault,
KING EDWARD IV:
Sorry I am my noble cousin should
That 'once' I see by your good father's speed

BISHOP OF CARLISLE:
As fancy values them; but with true prayers
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,

Resolved. resolved.

Very well:
You shout me forth
YORK:
CORIOLANUS:

Servant:
And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
Tailor, I'll pay thee for thy gown tomorrow:
What, thou?
'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
But I hear, no; they say my son of York

Bid him repair to us to Ely House
Turn to another, this shall slay them both:

If, Biondello, thou wert come ashore,

two of the house of the Montagues.
Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror,
Off with his head! Now, by Saint Paul I swear,

BAPTISTA:
She's apt to learn and thankful for good turns.

Of outward order: this we came not to,
From your good queen.
MARCIUS:
I cry thee mercy then, for I had thought
KING RICHARD III:
house. Shall we thither and with our company piece
To serve me last, that I may longest keep
His answer was, the people were not wont
This day had plotted, in the council-house
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
All thin and naked, to the numb cold night?
My life may last to answer.
If we will keep in favour with the king,
So criminal and in such capital kind,
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.

This we prescribe, though no physician;
Whilst Dighton thus told on: 'We smothered
KING LEWIS XI:
And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
Camillo for the minister to poison

I do believe it.

Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
The more I have, for both are infinite.
When she will play with reason and discourse,
And once again cry 'Charge upon our foes!'

And all my followers to the eager foe

In special business from his holiness.
BIONDELLO:
ta'en from me, and these detestable things put upon
I'll not believe but they ascend the sky,
And go we, brothers, to the man that took him,

At each his needless heavings, such as you



And, as I am a gentleman, I credit him.
That wrings mine eyes to't.
Which breathed this poison.
LUCIO:
CLARENCE:
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
Messenger:
Such as befits the pleasure of the court?

What comfort is for Claudio?
PETRUCHIO:


As much as in him lies, from time to time
Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
The Earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment:
All-hallond eve.
Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
Not dropp'd down yet.
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:


DUKE VINCENTIO:
BIONDELLO:
And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms,
conduit of many kings' reigns. I never heard of such
To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean:
Of all the under fiends. But if so be
Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet,

For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night
I do defy him, and I spit at him;
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal,

'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.
Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
Pray now, buy some: I love a ballad in print o'
DUCHESS OF YORK:

So then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo?
A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties
There lies the substance: and I thank thee, king,
Nurse:
Away, away, mad ass! his name is Lucentio and he is
No noise, my lord; but needful conference
So smile the heavens upon this holy act,
I have no brother, I am like no brother;
And therefore frame your manners to the time.
Take that, and that: if all this will not do,
Most sure, the goddess
Yet again! what do you here? Shall we give o'er

cony-catched in this business: I dare swear this
Then fiery expedition be my wing,
Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak.
Good time of day unto my gracious lord!
The history of all her secret thoughts:
And not bewray thy treason with a blush?
Why, here's no crab; and therefore look not sour.


I'll gladly learn.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well:
Master Froth?
whipping, and hanging.

When it hoars ere it be spent.
That you are like to Sir Vincentio.
So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,

Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?

To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
SICINIUS:

I'll go to him, and undertake to bring him
PETRUCHIO:
KATHARINA:
TRANIO:

Shalt waft them over with our royal fleet.
Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother;
BUCKINGHAM:

GENTLEMEN:

Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,
Proof?

GLOUCESTER:
They set the same; and there it doth remain,
And twenty more such names and men as these


And lay aside my high blood's royalty,
To seek their fortunes farther than at home


LUCENTIO:
And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns.
That they combine not there.
CHRISTOPHER:
To every article.
When I am alone, why, then I am Tranio;
And tells us, what occasion of import


Open their congeal'd mouths and bleed afresh!
Who will of thy arrival be full joyous.
If you be hired for meed, go back again,
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
A federary with her, and one that knows
O upright, just, and true-disposing God,

I think the duke will not be spoke withal.
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven

ANGELO:



POMPEY:
GREMIO:
First Citizen:
CORIOLANUS:
A' was a merry man--took up the child:
RUTLAND:
Without a sudden calm, will overset


But do not like to stage me to their eyes:
Who having into truth, by telling of it,
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
And towards London they do bend their course,
CLIFFORD:
O, widow Dido! ay, widow Dido.
WARWICK:

do you think of the trade, Pompey? is it a lawful trade?
Citizens:
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
ROMEO:
And suck'd my verdure out on't. Thou attend'st not.
What power the Duke of York had levied there;
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
To stir against the butchers of his life!
Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.


How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child,
This being granted in course,--and now follows
Hence! hang not on my garments.
DUKE OF YORK:
Communicatest with dreams;--how can this be?--
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.



First Senator:
Who but to-day hammer'd of this design,
SICINIUS:
CORIOLANUS:
Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
As I remember, this should be the house.
Thy lips are warm.

Doth watch Bianca's steps so narrowly,
Shall have the chinks.
Let's not meet her.
Thanks, good Montgomery; but we now forget
RIVERS:

The image of it gives me content already; and I
am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
Young York he is but boot, because both they
That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have
I prithee tell me; cram's with praise, and make's
For truth to o'er-peer. Rather than fool it so,
'Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio,
And long live Henry, fourth of that name!
And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?
The better, given me by so holy a man.
Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave:
You put me off with limber vows; but I,
What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested thee
DUKE VINCENTIO:

RICHARD:
'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false
ELBOW:
him like a carbon ado.

ANGELO:
For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
If I thou protector of this damned strumpet--
But you have all the vantage of her wrong.
James Tyrrel, and your most obedient subject.
'Tis sin to flatter; 'good' was little better:
And have no vigour in them.
Well, I must do't:

I pray thee, mark me.

Stay but a little, I will come again.
Second Officer:

Farewell, my lord. Light to my chamber, ho!

My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
KATHARINA:
Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant?
Overdone's own house, for here be many of her old

I thought, at least, he would have said the king;

That my ability may undergo
LADY ANNE:
FLORIZEL:
Mine ear hath tempted judgment to desire.
BRUTUS:
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest

Go on, and fetch our horses back again.
And this same needy man must sell it me.
And those his golden beams to you here lent
That's he indeed.
To bitterest enmity: so, fellest foes,
His weary joints would gladly rise, I know;
Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor:
Shall point on me and gild my banishment.

JOHN OF GAUNT:
He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall:

So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece
A' has a little gall'd me, I confess;

GLOUCESTER:
Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick, peace,
sincerely: had I a dozen sons, each in my love
Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen
They could not speak; and so I left them both,
What shall I swear by?
But whether 'twas the coldness of the king,
Pray, sir, in what?
Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
If you submit you to the people's voices,
I think so too; for never gazed the moon
Brother, we done deeds of charity;
love-song; the very pin of his heart cleft with the
loved her: the ballad is very pitiful and as true.
O Tullus,--
We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
O, how we joy to see your wit restored!
See you the fornicatress be removed:
But, madam, where is Warwick then become?
Nor no such men as you have reckon'd up,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
CORIOLANUS:
SICINIUS:
Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this.
But, tell me, where is princely Richmond now?

You urged me as a judge; but I had rather
But to command, to cheque, to o'erbear such

Mistake no more: I am not Licio,

Hath she had any more than one husband?
There hath been in Rome strange insurrections; the
not, use him for the present and dismiss him. He
To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret-castle;

Commit me for committing honour, trust it,
GLOUCESTER:
Signior Baptista's liberality,
Come, you are a tedious fool: to the purpose. What
I'll do his country service.
Where is kind Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey?
She may, my lord, for--
And now in England to our heart's great sorrow,
He's simple and tells much.
Down, down to hell; and say I sent thee thither:
And that thy summer bred us no increase,
Here's a good world the while! Why who's so gross,
Nurse:
A liberal rewarder of his friends:
'Tis true:
and to be on foot at an hour's warning.
Am heir to my affection.
Arise; one knocks; good Romeo, hide thyself.
KATHARINA:
Are you a maid?

CORIOLANUS:

And why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue,
Content.
That swells with silence in the tortured soul;
GREMIO:
Then take him up and manage well the jest:
The one in fear to lose what they enjoy,
That he will not be won to aught against him.

POMPEY:
Now, now: I have not winked since I saw these
women; he was not inclined that way.
WARWICK:
And now what rests but that we spend the time
But till 'twere known!

Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
What stays had I but they? and they are gone.
Come, Warwick, take the time; kneel down, kneel down:
Which blood, like sacrificing Abel's, cries,



That almost freezes up the heat of life:

Prithee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius,
Only for saying he would make his son
TRANIO:
Digest it with a custom, I should blush
And time to speak it in: you rub the sore,

Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
What would you do?
Nothing but that; move still, still so,
Comfort, my liege; remember who you are.
PAULINA:
Shall I send to thee?
For I have heard that she was there in place.
Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's
Citizens:
My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor;
For so your doctors hold it very meet,

O'ercome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
which now we'll show 'em in deeds. They say poor
As surfeit is the father of much fast,
My heart is not confederate with my hand.


My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here
More health and happiness betide my liege
O, he is wounded; I thank the gods for't.
Your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty,
As you threw caps up will he tumble down,

Convey me to my bed, then to my grave:
Than gilt his trophy: the breasts of Hecuba,
Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
A banish'd traitor: all my treasury
KING RICHARD III:

sentenced him. To make you understand this in a
Father of Warwick, know you what this means?
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
And let mischance be slave to patience.

O, 'tis a fault too too unpardonable!
That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast!
I will go darkly to work with her.


To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,
But heaven hath a hand in these events,
But, so it is, it is not. Was this taken
No, Pompey.
LUCIO:
Richard!
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Or I my life.
In God's name, speak: when is the royal day?
Have been beholding to him in his life;
How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?
LEONTES:

ANGELO:
Take on himself the sovereignty thereof:

And the nobility of Rome are his:

Tarquin seven hurts i' the body.
Where our right valiant father is become.

From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring,
Have all forsook me, hath devour'd the rest;
You are all resolved rather to die than to famish?
Exeter, thou art a traitor to the crown
To give mine enemy a lasting wink;
Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse.
Ay, mother; but I would not have it so.

Henceforth I vow it shall be so for me.
BRUTUS:
And, in good time, here comes the sweating lord.
With less respect than we do minister

habit no loss shall touch her by my company.
Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
That which his noble ancestors achieved with blows:
exercises than formerly he hath appeared.
And knew no other kin.
Go, get you to your house; be gone, away!
Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns;
But of the finer natures? by some severals
Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
When it doth tax itself; as these black masks
Hath not yet dived into the world's deceit
AUTOLYCUS:
And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd
Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.

What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,

First hand me: on mine own accord I'll off;
Speak gentle words and humbly bend thy knee,
What, my lord?
Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine:
What is it, but to make thy sepulchre
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Accomplish'd with the number of thy hours;
And mannerly distinguishment leave out
good natures
Masters o' the people,
PETER:
We have: whereupon the Earl of Worcester
Too far in years to be a pupil now:
Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Nay, that's not so.
LORD FITZWATER:
For Edward will defend the town and thee,
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
ROMEO:
Huntsman:
Till she herself confess it.
O Isabel, will you not lend a knee?
Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot,


Before I freely speak my mind herein,
Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
COMINIUS:
Wailing our losses, whiles the foe doth rage;
Myself disposed to sleep.
And vows revenge as spacious as between
GRUMIO:
CORIOLANUS:
Then am I king'd again: and by and by
Second Senator:
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
Does reason our petition with more strength
My Lord Northumberland, see them dispatch'd.

But owe thy pride thyself.
Nay, but hear me.
To meet at London London's king in woe.
Ah, let me live in prison all my days;
Is empty on the back of Montague,--

She will beshrew me much that Romeo
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.'
ESCALUS:

That heirless it hath made my kingdom and
In rage deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.
A thousand times good night!

For I must hence; and farewell to you all.
That go before it.
Why, then, the champions are prepared, and stay
Why, courage then! what cannot be avoided
Boatswain:
Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it

The precedent was full as long a-doing:
BUSHY:
O true apothecary!
WARWICK:
I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown.
And therefore I yield thee my free consent.
KING HENRY VI:
I'll write unto them and entreat them fair.
True, noble prince.
noble Marcius.
ANTONIO:

QUEEN MARGARET:
Not rash like his accusers, and thus answer'd:
To Valentinus, Rowland, and to Crassus,
Fill me a bowl of wine. Give me a watch.
ESCALUS:
Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
being proud?
MARCIUS:
First Citizen:
content to say it was for his country he did it to
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
Stay, then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me:
I will despair, and be at enmity
You're liars all.
That hand, which, for thy love, did kill thy love,
CORIOLANUS:
ROMEO:
That you shall be my wife; your dowry 'greed on;
And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand,
Yes, better, sir.
Myself and my good cousin Buckingham
You have no cause.
Did I put Henry from his native right?
Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!

For they have pardons, being ask'd, as free
Let's take leave of him.
GONZALO:
And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
you? Show your knave's visage, with a pox to you!
Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
I'll slit the villain's nose, that would have sent
Were to incense the boar to follow us
Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick?
CATESBY:
Your tongue, though but bastards and syllables
His word is more than the miraculous harp; he hath
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;

WARWICK:


MARCIUS:
As 'tis to laugh at 'em. My mother, you wot well

Your heart is full of something that does take
KING EDWARD IV:
Divine his downfall? Say, where, when, and how,

Their sacred wills be done! Go, get aboard;
HERMIONE:

Dwelt by a churchyard: I will tell it softly;
BAPTISTA:
My lord, 'tis nothing.
GONZALO:
His name and credit shall you undertake,
His honour and myself are at the one,
PETRUCHIO:
To fight on Edward's party for the crown;
Fortune and victory sit on thy helm!



The thief doth fear each bush an officer.

And shall I have?

First Senator:


Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick!
I see thy grieved heart: thy sad aspect

And threaten present blusters. In my conscience,
And that he is a bastard, not thy son:
She I kill'd! I did so: but thou strikest me
KING HENRY VI:
As I subscribe not that, nor any other,
KING RICHARD II:
What! has your king married the Lady Grey!
Richmond, in Yorkshire, sent out a boat
O, 'tis an accident that heaven provides!
There are pretty orders beginning, I can tell you:
Courage! there will be pity taken on you: you that
Nor never look upon each other's face;
To follow as it draws! I'll to my brother:
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Sir, understand you this of me in sooth:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
BRUTUS:
I am that Isabella and his sister.
For my prosperity!
Is she a Capulet?
I think there's never a man in Christendom

A man of stricture and firm abstinence,
Did will what he did spend and spent not that
Sir Richard Ratcliff, let me tell thee this:
Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,

Will it not be?
A noble Neapolitan, Gonzalo,

GARDENER:
That, with the fusty plebeians, hate thine honours,
'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou
I take thee at thy word:
It is a bitter deputy.
From this world's thraldom to the joys of heaven.
Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish.
My lord, I claim your gift, my due by promise,
And meet me presently at Salisbury.
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
I, Daedalus; my poor boy, Icarus;
To wake our peace, which in our country's cradle
From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France,
Call't not a plot:
The envious slanders of her false accusers;
Schoolmasters will I keep within my house,
First Senator:
I prize it not a straw, but for mine honour,

Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife!
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
That no man shall have private conference,

DUKE VINCENTIO:
Second Servingman:
LUCIO:
I will be his conduct.
God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!
The gods, not the patricians, make it, and

No, no, my lord.
Shall I seem crest-fall'n in my father's sight?
MARCIUS:
This is strange now: do you two know how you are
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
What means Sicilia?

whom Cominius the general is gone, with one part of
But Warwick's king is Edward's prisoner:
With purple falchion, painted to the hilt
That, if you fail in our request, the blame
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company:
PETER:
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks,
The weariest and most loathed worldly life
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Break off thy song, and haste thee quick away:
Till he did look on me: since it is so,

CALIBAN:


Direct not him whose way himself will choose:
I, in probation of a sisterhood,
Tailor:
justice, sir, and do bring in here before your good
For both hast thou, and both become the grave.
True,
With promise of his sister, and what else,
Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?

But now two mirrors of his princely semblance
I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault,

If to either, thou dost ill.
HASTINGS:
MIRANDA:
White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps
shall beat out my brains with billets: I will not
In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire
We kill the fowl of season: shall we serve heaven
And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.
This noble isle doth want her proper limbs;


Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,

Peter, didst ever see the like?
PETRUCHIO:
We are all frail.
If non to bless us and the land withal,
That I enjoy, being the queen thereof.
O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear:
Within their innocent alabaster arms:
No.
The queen from France hath brought a puissant power:

And to conclude, the shepherd's homely curds,

Both to defend my loyalty and truth
For though fond nature bids us an lament,
Divinely bent to meditation;
And that his lady mourns at his disease:
And Henry but usurps the diadem.
I will with you, if you be so contented,
I'll tell thee, ere thou ask it me again.
And ride upon their backs; he trod the water,
BAPTISTA:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
FLORIZEL:
POLIXENES:
With her whom here I cannot hold on shore;
So many hours must I tend my flock;
Come, vial.
Away, away! for he is coming hither.
I tell thee, Catesby--
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.
I'll have no halves; I'll bear it all myself.
But that his negligence, his folly, fear,
They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege

For which the people stir: if you will pass
And have prevail'd as much on him as you.
And bear his charging of wooing, whatsoe'er.
Maiden, no remedy.

JULIET:

Provost:
Now by my soul, I would it were this hour.
For such a one as leaves a gentleman,
Below the beam of sight, yet will I still
If I thought that, I tell thee, homicide,
Great Lord of Warwick, if we should recount
Or else beshrew them both.
Let what is meet be said it must be meet,

ISABELLA:
From France?
And so am come abroad to see the world.

He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt,

Tailor:
Her suit is granted for her husband's lands.


Should choose himself a wife, but as good reason

This is a way to kill a wife with kindness;
O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
crooked face at it. I can't say your worships have
ESCALUS:
My sovereign, with the loving citizens,

KATHARINA:
ROMEO:
HASTINGS:
ANGELO:

Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
In anger, Juno-like. Come, come, come.
Which, in the day of battle, tire thee more
To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
Farewell!
The seal I keep: and so betide to me

Is, to determine of the coronation.
O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
May suffer alteration, on mine honour,
MAMILLIUS:

And own no other function: each your doing,


LEONTES:
ANOTHER:
HORTENSIO:
BENVOLIO:
Nay, I'll not warrant that; for I can speak

All:
O, let my sovereign turn away his face
Hath made thy person for the thrower-out
First Soldier:


Our bruised arms hung up for monuments;
ANTIGONUS:
And I am faint and cannot fly their fury:
The baby beats the nurse, and quite athwart
lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not

KING RICHARD III:
RICHARD:
The supreme seat, the throne majestical,
That dogs bark at me as I halt by them;
RATCLIFF:
To look so poorly and to speak so fair?
Put up your swords; you know not what you do.
RICHARD:
And pay no worship to the garish sun.

But toiling desperately to find it out,--
The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
KING EDWARD IV:
My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
Delay leads impotent and snail-paced beggary
warrant for it: it hath not moved him at all.
Yea, are you so brief?
KATHARINA:
And whet on Warwick to this enterprise.

GREMIO:
Am I a lord? and have I such a lady?
JULIET:
A velvet dish: fie, fie! 'tis lewd and filthy:
The prenzie Angelo!
Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
We have deserved it.
To season love, that of it doth not taste!

What's he approacheth boldly to our presence?
Your most obedient counsellor, yet that dare
How should this grow?
am undone! I am undone! while I play the good
What! we have many goodly days to see:

And then, to purge his fear, I'll be thy death.
Since fate, against thy better disposition,
Madam, his majesty doth call for you,
GLOUCESTER:
'Warwick, revenge! brother, revenge my death!'
O slanderous world! Kate like the hazel-twig

CAPULET:
delivered the matter well, when I find the ass in
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
Now welcome more, and ten times more beloved,
I see a woman may be made a fool,
O, were it but my life,
And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother,
Even or odd, of all days in the year,
Wherefore? wherefore?
PRINCE EDWARD:
Provost:
Bid Gloucester think of this, and he will weep.
Allow their officers and are content
A whoreson beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave!



And once again bestride our foaming steeds,

First Conspirator:

To the people, beg their stinking breaths.
Bears a command in't; though thy tackle's torn.
A graceful gentleman; against whose person,
O, that once more you knew but what you are!
Nurse:
A gross hag
It doth contain a king; King Richard lies
And know their spring, their head, their
'Tis meet so, daughter: but lest you do repent,
Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light.
What's he?
Marry, I will, let them play it. Is not a
SAMPSON:
Here pitch our tents, even here in Bosworth field.
Who hast the memory of Hermione,
I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.

Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
ram-tender, to offer to have his daughter come into
Whose unavoided eye is murderous.
For man or master; then it follows thus;

Before the tag return? whose rage doth rend

How hast thou offended?
To set my brother Clarence and the king


What is the matter, uncle? speak;
In ignorant concealment.
Be held by you denials. Do not bid me
Your grace may do your pleasure.
VIRGILIA:
COMINIUS:
how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his

TRANIO:
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
The news is, sir, the Volsces are in arms.


No, Warwick, no; while life upholds this arm,

ISABELLA:

Your hand, my Perdita: so turtles pair,
CAPULET:
As merry as when our nuptial day was done,

Erroneous, mutinous and unnatural,
Ghost of CLARENCE:
O gracious duke,
LUCIO:
Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be;
Why, thou unreverend and unhallow'd friar,
For what?
With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
When I should mount with wings of victory:
GONZALO:
His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights,
Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,
To take our brother Clarence to your grace.

By this at Daintry, with a puissant troop.


QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Are all things fitting for that royal time?
Sometime puts forth. In your affairs, my lord,
Come hither, Bess, and let me kiss my boy.
March to assault thy country than to tread--
Therefore love moderately; long love doth so;
Therefore, to arms! And, father, do but think
SICINIUS:
MONTAGUE:
From sun to sun: there is my honour's pawn;
How many children hast thou, widow? tell me.
Page:
GLOUCESTER:
SICINIUS:
Pattern in himself to know,
Whose tongue?
And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
I'll ha' thee burnt.
How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
Thou most lying slave,

For nothing had begot my something grief;
Go, go, up to the leads; the lord mayor knocks.
Cut off by course of justice,--
KING EDWARD IV:
I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,
Left solely heir to all his lands and goods,
Thou art a fool: if Echo were as fleet,

To prison with her! Shall we thus permit
What, shall we toward the Tower? the day is spent.
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.

And long hereafter say unto his child,
Why, I pray you?
Young Edward lives: think now what I would say.
Would think upon you for your voices and
With that, methoughts, a legion of foul fiends
Send for the county; go tell him of this:
After our sentence plaining comes too late.
From my succession wipe me, father; I
Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.

Justice, O royal duke! Vail your regard
The Volsces dare break with us.
It is, and wants but nomination.
another, his wife another; and, I think, there's one
LUCIO:
But only slaughter'd by the ireful arm
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
Peace, Grumio! it is the rival of my love.
Talkers are no good doers: be assured
TRANIO:
To the dead bodies of my queen and son:
For God's sake, let us sit upon the ground
BRUTUS:
Ere he express himself, or move the people
Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,
A gentler scion to the wildest stock,
He thinks, nay, with all confidence he swears,
She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat;

Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
DUKE OF YORK:
thee; look thee, a bearing-cloth for a squire's
wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
His cold thin drink out of his leather bottle.

Third Citizen:
condition of a man!
Warwick, what are thy news? and yours, fair queen?
'Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral;
We are tougher, brother,
Such a dependency of thing on thing,
Our haste from hence is of so quick condition
If not to answer, you might haply think
KATHARINA:
KING EDWARD IV:
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met,

Catesby, we come. Lords, will you go with us?
ANGELO:
There is another comfort than this world,
They fear us not, but issue forth their city.

First Soldier:

man.

Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers;
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes,
customary gown.

By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.

mine only son, and heir to the lands of me, Signior Vincentio.
First Gentleman:
HORTENSIO:


Pembroke and Stafford, you in our behalf
poor with begging.
Nor wish'd to hold my peace.
Noble lady!
The prince your son, with mere conceit and fear
I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother

Therefore I say with noble Buckingham,

PARIS:
Which else would post until it had return'd
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,
Examine every married lineament,
She will indite him to some supper.
As brittle as the glory is the face;
Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier,
From him that has most cause to grieve it should be,
Katharina, that cap of yours becomes you not:

This favour will I do you for his sake;
No, but there's a woman with maid by him. You have

Therefore they thought it good you hear a play
What's worse than murderer, that I may name it?
all my trumpery; not a counterfeit stone, not a

Where are thy children? wherein dost thou, joy?

LADY ANNE:

No, but the loss of his own royal person.
Hie thee to hell for shame, and leave the world,
I find myself a traitor with the rest;
To an impatient child that hath new robes
With all her double vigour, art and nature,
Before I see thee seated in that throne
In levity: since which time of five years
Shepherd:


To make die with a restorative.
Buy lads, or else your lasses cry: Come buy.
youth of the city?

Third Servingman:
Makes the survivor heir of all.
Than those she placeth highest! So, farewell.
Ye shall, my Lord.
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
By love, who first did prompt me to inquire;
sister. But mark how heavily this befell to the
Not I, believe me: you have dancing shoes
Go on before; I'll talk with this good fellow.
The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
To be consorted with the humorous night:
MENENIUS:
Why do you look on us, and shake your head,
'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
should buy first, as if my trinkets had been
And he would love me dearly as his child.

HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
Make motion through my lips, and my arm'd knees,
Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst;
You have mistook, my lady,

To fine the faults whose fine stands in record,
That spoil'd your summer fields and fruitful vines,
As to Jove's statue, and the commons made
When thou hast broke it in so dear degree?

Methought the souls of all that I had murder'd
Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? where is Bagot?
Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright
KING HENRY VI:

EDWARD:

In hand and hope of action: but we do learn
'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
But in your daughter's womb I bury them:
TRANIO:


But none returns. For us to levy power
dying, I with things newborn. Here's a sight for

HASTINGS:
Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
To murder, murder our solemnity?

KING RICHARD II:
This liberty is all that I request,
Which, as thou know'st, unjustly must be spilt.

Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
How now, my as fair as noble ladies,--and the moon,
But sun it is not, when you say it is not;
Weak men must fall, for heaven still guards the right.
Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke,


Whether you had not sometime in your life
No; for he could not so resign his crown
PETRUCHIO:


WARWICK:
All their petitions are as freely theirs

I am sorry for't:
GREMIO:

Not a hair perish'd;
Lord:
Swear not by time to come; for that thou hast
But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide

ANGELO:
To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
Safe-conducting the rebels from their ships!
To show myself a glass.
Daughter, well met.
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings:
Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir!
Why he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.
puts transgression to 't.
With no less honour to the Antiates
By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.


O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
HASTINGS:
Gloucester and Buckingham.
TRANIO:
Or with the clamorous report of war
To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
Go not home.
QUEEN MARGARET:
BRUTUS:
I willingly obey your command.
GRUMIO:
JULIET:

Say thou wilt walk; we will bestrew the ground:

With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;

My care is loss of care, by old care done;
How! away!
Post:
Nurse:
Nurse:
These words hereafter thy tormentors be!

GREMIO:
AUFIDIUS:
To pluck away their power, as now at last
Fan you into despair! Have the power still
faults I have committed to your worship and to give
With all the gracious utterance thou hast
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
They will, then, ere't be long.
But be thou arm'd for some unhappy words.
Come, you are so full of cony-catching!
Not unlike,
MARIANA:
Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep,
More criminal in thee than it,--so thou
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
Part, fools!
Yet neither conqueror nor conquered:
To undercrest your good addition

Howe'er you lean to the nayward.
Upon his visage, and that all the walls
Well, on to the market-place.

ROMEO:
man's voice.
Would I were dead, but that, methinks, already--
Upon the like devotion as yourselves,
sometimes more feet than shoes, or such shoes as my
O lamentable day!


Plainly as heaven sees earth and earth sees heaven,
BIANCA:
Yet who's so blind, but says he sees it not?
PROSPERO:
Adoptedly; as school-maids change their names

And quite lost their hearts: the nobles hath he fined
So sacred as it is, I have done sin:
I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.

Than we to stretch it out.
Just as my master had direction:
And will by twos and threes at several posterns
My lord?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Of mortal breathing: seize it, if thou darest.
How do I thank thee, that this carnal cur

And, by all likelihood, some cheer is toward.
First Murderer:
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now
Messenger:
BIONDELLO:

the house.
And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed
That this is true, father, behold his blood.
If Marcius should be join'd with Volscians,--
Myself condemned and myself excused.
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
You should account me the more virtuous that I have
CORIOLANUS:
KING EDWARD IV:
Whose credit with the judge, or own great place,

Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
He shall well know
First Citizen:

But thou didst kill my children.
Thou hast said enough.
And, in my company, my brother Gloucester;
Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.
Be brief, lest that be process of thy kindness
Conditionally, that here thou take an oath

Persuade the queen to send the Duke of York
MENENIUS:
A gentle cousin, were it light enough.

LADY ANNE:
Prithee, son, do; for we must be gentle, now we are
One that you love.
Doth love my daughter and she loveth him,
That would I learn of you,
First Murderer:
ALONSO:

Take you your instrument, play you the whiles;
EDWARD:
POLIXENES:
A woman's general; what should we fear?
To answer other business. Shrug'st thou, malice?
ANTONIO:

My grained ash an hundred times hath broke

Of this fair couple, meets he on the way

LUCIO:
ANGELO:
You worthy tribunes,--

LEONTES:
With those gross taunts I often have endured.

an egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with a
Receive in either by this dear encounter.

You will not bail me, then, sir?
Now stops thy spring; my sea sha$l suck them dry,
DUKE VINCENTIO:


But it confounds the breather. He should have lived,
This lady's husband here, this, do you see--
To know, when two authorities are up,
When steel grows soft as the parasite's silk,
Remember our reward, when the deed is done.
SICINIUS:
There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
3 KING HENRY VI

The emptier ever dancing in the air,

And never in my life, I do protest,
Ere I could make thee open thy white hand
And yet I love him.

It will let in and out the enemy
bill, give me thy mete-yard, and spare not me.
BENVOLIO:
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
any, freely give unto you this young scholar,
ISABELLA:
The meanest house in Rome, so far my son--
Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turn

I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well;


Was never widow had so dear a loss!
And craves your company for speedy counsel.
You would be another Penelope: yet, they say, all



Give you all greetings that a king, at friend,
And pluck it o'er your brows, muffle your face,
Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
And look'd upon things precious as they were

For, well I wot, thou hast thy mother's tongue.
LADY CAPULET:
DERBY:
Was like to be the best.
'Thus, thus,' quoth Forrest, 'girdling one another
Provost:
LUCENTIO:
Not sleeping, to engross his idle body,

Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
Being all this time abandon'd from your bed.
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog!

Hie you to church; I must another way,
'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
FLORIZEL:

Second Watchman:
PETRUCHIO:
Which thou shouldst bear me: only that name remains;
LUCENTIO:

LADY ANNE:
I blame not her, she could say little less;
this advantage, first, that your stay with him may
Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
The very beadsmen learn to bend their bows
and wouldst adventure

I pray you, husband, be not so disquiet:
GLOUCESTER:
POLIXENES:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
I thank your grace.
You shall not be admitted to his sight.
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle
Out of his charity, being then appointed

Who does infect her?
And,--do you mark me, sir?
with the other confederate companion!
Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland,
CLIFFORD:
An affable and courteous gentleman:

DUKE OF YORK:
Where it fits not you to know.
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
When he perceives the envious clouds are bent

She hung about my neck; and kiss on kiss
It is a purposed thing, and grows by plot,
First were we sad, fearing you would not come;
Play the men.
And thus expiring do foretell of him:
Put them not to't:
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
Fridays. He's not past it yet, and I say to thee,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:

So, slave; hence!
the spirits o' the dead

remedy presents itself. I do make myself believe
Dear life redeems you. You perceive she stirs:
imposition, as for the enjoying of thy life, who I




Ay, on my life; and hopes to find forward
with comforts,
I fear you not.
Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
Clown:
more of you.
If he arise, be mock'd and wonder'd at.
For that her reputation was disvalued
QUEEN:

Thou art like one of those fellows that when he

POMPEY:
The other his pale cheeks, methinks, presenteth:
Reports, the Volsces with two several powers

left a purse alive in the whole army.
Save him from danger, do him love and honour,

DUKE OF YORK:
That stir the king against the duke my brother.

What dogs are these! Where is the rascal cook?

I wis it is not half way to her heart;
LUCIO:
Which she hath praised him with above compare

This man has marr'd his fortune.



Lord Mayor:

'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
I cannot speak him home: he stopp'd the fliers;


You break into some merry passion
With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,

Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will

that my report: you, indeed, spoke so of him; and

Look on her, mark her well; be but about
Provost, a word with you.
Thou wouldst have left thy dearest heart-blood there,
BUCKINGHAM:
We are all undone, unless
On some known ground of treachery in him?
A merriment than a vice.
KING RICHARD III:
And yet no further than a wanton's bird;
And be a happy mother by the deed.
Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
utters them as he had eaten ballads and all men's
O, then how quickly should this arm of mine.
O grave and good Paulina, the great comfort
Are you my wife and will not call me husband?

With too much riches it confound itself:
We'll have this song out anon by ourselves: my
Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.

CLARENCE:
see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
MERCUTIO:
Plantagenet shall speak first: hear him, lords;
gods! O fine villain! A silken doublet! a velvet
father; for the king's son took me by the hand, and

I very well agree with you in the hopes of him: it

CLARENCE:
your complexion, shall keep the body of it ever
And, by the grace of God and this mine arm,
Return him here again. Go with him, provost.
My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word;
And such a one as he, who puts his 'shall,'
BRAKENBURY:
But what is like me formerly.
If not already.
I come to tell you things sith then befall'n.
Instead whereof let this supply the room:
That Bona shall be wife to the English king.
SICINIUS:


To smooth his fault I should have been more mild:
Go, trumpet, to the walls, and sound a parle.
Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move
Which dances with your daughter?

KING RICHARD II:
As if he were the right Vincentio
To help me sort such needful ornaments
In my opinion, ought to be prevented.
And help the joy.
The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
LADY ANNE:
May know if you remain upon this island;
Could he say less?
That is not glad to see thee! You are three
Thou didst receive the holy sacrament,
In our remove be thou at full ourself;

The heavens give safety to your purposes!
Why, my young cousin, it is good to grow.
Boy:


Depart again: here, here will I remain
BRUTUS:
But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:
Would be her lord? or shall I say, her uncle?
sea again; lay her off.
Away to heaven, respective lenity,
In blood of those that had encounter'd him:
Must gently be preserved, cherish'd, and kept:
But by his mother was perforce withheld.
Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.
MENENIUS:
Unless you have the grace by your fair prayer

First Citizen:
I prithee, grieve, to make me merry, York.
I cannot stay to hear these articles.
To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
To enter human hearing, from Argier,
Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition
Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself
No, no, he's gone.
Thy kinsman and thy friends, I'll have more lives
And ship from thence to Flanders.
As heavens forefend!--your ruin; marry her,
He, more incensed against your majesty
these robes are not gentlemen born: give me the

Or something hath the nothing that I grieve:
And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand,
And never will I undertake the thing

MAMILLIUS:

As benefits to thee, for I will fight
That I must bear a part.
Of what is to be dreaded.

And his old hate unto you; besides, forget not



More light and light; more dark and dark our woes!

To come at first when he doth send for her,
Landlord of England art thou now, not king:

How shall that faith return again to earth,
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.
And, after that wise prince, Henry the Fifth,
What hast here? ballads?
ANGELO:
No sneaping winds at home, to make us say
They are both in either's powers; but this swift business
fancies' pricked in't for a feather: a monster, a
back thy business there: whereupon I command thee to
I must be patient till the heavens look
Airy succeeders of intestate joys,
In many singularities; but we saw not
but I am not to say it is a sea, for it is now the
Though in some part enforced to digress;

Lo, here, this long-usurped royalty
LEONTES:
ROMEO:

before to make a fire, and they are coming after to
His father revell'd in the heart of France,
3 KING HENRY VI
You bless me, gods!
I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
If you advise it.

Green earthen pots, bladders and musty seeds,
WARWICK:
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
Ye are a baggage: the Slys are no rogues; look in
Once more, take her hence.
What dreadful noise of waters in mine ears!
PETRUCHIO:
My absolute power and place here in Vienna,
stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
Of breaking honesty--horsing foot on foot?
More of him anon. There is written in your brow,
This fellow had a Volscian to his mother;
Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.
SAMPSON:
So my untruth had not provoked him to it,
Your brother is imprison'd by your means,


LADY GREY:
More to know
JULIET:
KING EDWARD IV:
QUEEN MARGARET:

O,
Second Messenger:

A treacherous army levied, one midnight
Is he come?
Marry, sir, I think, if you handled her privately,

Our lands, our lives and all are Bolingbroke's,

Provost:
will be considered.
NORFOLK:
Herself poised with herself in either eye:
But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots?
I never heard any soldier dislike it.
The earldom of Hereford, and the moveables
No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay:

GRUMIO:
As mercy does.
The king shall do it: must he be deposed?
The wrinkles in my brows, now filled with blood,
Another way I have to man my haggard,

GLOUCESTER:
The king and prince at prayers! let's assist them,
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
To bear the matter thus; mere weakness. If
AUTOLYCUS:
If for the last, say ay, and to it, lords.

iniquity, stealing away from his father with his

LADY ANNE:

What if he had said 'widower AEneas' too? Good Lord,
LADY CAPULET:
And, ere my knee rise from the earth's cold face,
In her consists my happiness and thine;

Your crown content and you must be contented

Ah, what a shame! ah, what a fault were this!
Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,

The scepter'd office of your ancestors,
Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?
With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs.
DORSET:
And would have rent it. Another word, Menenius,
Lord:
Angelo, came not to an undoubtful proof.

For the instalment of this noble duke

Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
Must die to-morrow! O injurious love,
Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests;
PETRUCHIO:
To thee I do commend my watchful soul,

Why grow the branches now the root is wither'd?

Some comfort, nurse.

Lord:
As you feel doing thus; and see withal
She shall not need; we'll meet her in the field.

By such despair, I should accuse myself.
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
POLIXENES:
No shame but mine: I must, forsooth, be forced
To see his nobleness!
My women may be with me; for you see
and a pair of sweet gloves.
Of the whole body. The belly answer'd--
He was the author, thou the instrument.
HERMIONE:
ARCHIDAMUS:
To every eyeball else. Go take this shape
HASTINGS:
What, with five thousand men?
But fresher than before: and, as thou badest me,
PARIS:
ABRAHAM:


A pack of blessings lights up upon thy back;
A cause more promising
inch narrow to an ell broad!
DUKE OF AUMERLE:

With an eye of green in't.
Nurse:

Came to my tent; and every one did threat
Weapons, weapons, weapons!

KING RICHARD III:
As all the world--why, he's a man of wax.
To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her?
Good expedition be my friend, and comfort
Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.
Verona, for a while I take my leave,
Piercing our Romans: then, valiant Titus, take
Thou setter up and plucker down of kings,
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?

To the noble heart. What's gone and what's past help
For you, the city, thus I turn my back:



LADY MONTAGUE:

Welcome, sweet prince, to London, to your chamber.


Then all too late comes counsel to be heard,
MENENIUS:
But since he hath
Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
in.
Come, what talk you

With words of sooth! O that I were as great

Which, till my infant fortune comes to years,
And I, to keep all this.
And still is friend to him and Margaret:
3 KING HENRY VI
You thus have publish'd me! Gentle my lord,
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
ANTIGONUS:
As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
And in this covert will we make our stand,
To save your life in this extremity,
You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune?
Hath been! is it ended, then? Our state thinks not
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
No remedy.

DUKE VINCENTIO:
Touching that point.
Nor none that live, I hope.
You are at point to lose your liberties:
KING EDWARD IV:
Women are soft, mild, pitiful and flexible;
PROSPERO:

LUCIO:
Here comes his servant: how now, Catesby,


JULIET:
What, no attendance? no regard? no duty?
it may be quickly.

My grandam told me he was murdered there.
But, soft! here come my executioners.
MOPSA:
You say you do not know the lady's mind:

Or my true heart with treacherous revolt

Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?



Can change their moons and bring their times about
What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night


For this design. What course I mean to hold
GLOUCESTER:
though absent, shook hands, as over a vast, and
What is that curt'sy worth? or those doves' eyes,
Never, O never shall I see more joy!
Add an immortal title to your crown!
Hidest thou that forehead with a golden crown,
Why give you me this shame?
When most struck home, being gentle wounded, craves
LEONTES:
DUCHESS OF YORK:
'Zounds, it is even now at my elbow, persuading me
Let the high office and the honour go

Thou art inclined to sleep; 'tis a good dulness,
Whither 'tis bent: most likely 'tis for you:
FRIAR LAURENCE:
VINCENTIO:
perchance of the duke's death; perchance entering


As a long-parted mother with her child
From Rome all season'd office and to wind
I should not for my life but weep with him.
My Lord of Buckingham, if my weak oratory



CORIOLANUS:

Nay, pray, be patient: if you refuse your aid

And I must find that title in your tongue,

I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
The tribunes are no soldiers; and their people
Pleased you to do't at peril of your soul,
WARWICK:
What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty,
ISABELLA:
Nay, hated too, worse than the great'st infection


And so he thinks, and is no less apparent
But not a minute, king, that thou canst give:

That all your acts are queens.

Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
Then, England's messenger, return in post,
ROMEO:

When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;


And make some pretty match with shedding tears?
He may surrender; so we shall proceed
Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
My child? away with't! Even thou, that hast
KING HENRY VI:
SICINIUS:
hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing
My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.
And she to him, to stay him not too long,
Let me excuse me, and believe me so,
YORK:
An oath is of no moment, being not took

But thou the king. Woe doth the heavier sit,
Seducing so my friends; and, to this end,
him carried away; and, which is more, within these
Appear i' the market-place nor on him put

Where you may have such vantage on the duke,
Carry this mad knave to the gaol. Father Baptista,
BIONDELLO:
O, my fair cousin, I must not say so.

The bird that hath been limed in a bush,
In an odd angle of the isle and sitting,
Which not to have done I think had been in me
My body up to shame.
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,

SOMERSET:
That makes himself, but for our honour therein,
We'll calm the Duke of Norfolk, you your son.
O, welcome, Oxford! for we want thy help.
Not Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
AUFIDIUS:
Consenting to the safeguard of your honour,
And what a prisoner.
EXTON:
The mighty dukes
How? thy wife?
No: the princess hearing of her mother's statue,

They should not laugh if I could reach them, nor
GLOUCESTER:
Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come;
another encounter, which lames report to follow it

cuff was but to knock at your ear, and beseech
Claudio to prison? 'tis not so.
Be of good cheer: mother, how fares your grace?

He consul!
And deck my body in gay ornaments,
What! can so young a thorn begin to prick?
All points of my command.
Soft, sir! one word more.
I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
O, if a virgin,
MERCUTIO:


RICHARD:
This last old man,
GONZALO:
By any likelihood he show'd to-day?
They are worn, lord consul, so,

To excel the golden age.
No; then he will say 'twas done cowardly, when he wakes.
Into an auger's bore.
RICHMOND:
If you'll bestow a small--of what you have little--
KING RICHARD II:
Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
Now let me see if I can construe it: 'Hic ibat
Cousins, indeed; and by their uncle cozen'd
MARCIUS:
Hath he born himself penitently in prison? how
GONZALO:

GRUMIO:
KATHARINA:
The more fool you, for laying on my duty.
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she:
Have you deserved: it is my father's music
MENENIUS:

Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
Now, knock when I bid you, sirrah villain!



man to teach her that wherein she delights, I will
The warrants for yourself; take heed to't.

So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that:
This, here before you.
What a blow was there given!
Think true love acted simple modesty.


death, with the manner how she came to't bravely
In sign of league and amity with thee:
All exercise on thee; thou shalt be pinch'd
Hail, most royal sir!
Thy woes will make them sharp, and pierce like mine.
rest; for there is nothing in the between but

So many blows upon this face of mine,

ESCALUS:
Speak, speak.
'Twas by rebellion against his king.
thee thine own goodness hath made; better not to
I, not remembering how I cried out then,
Thou, being a king, blest with a goodly son,
To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood,

In that you brook it in, it makes him worse:
In this appeal as thou art all unjust;
Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
Royal commanders, be in readiness:

on. She hath made me four and twenty nose-gays for
KATARINA:
No, I serve not thy master.
for the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not.
Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood,
Of this hard world, my ragged prison walls,
I will not do't.
MIRANDA:
Groan! why, no.
EDWARD:
For to a vision so apparent rumour
SICINIUS:
No, pardon; 'tis a secret must be locked within the
Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead me forth
Although by confiscation they are ours,
Wars have not wasted it, for warr'd he hath not,
MERCUTIO:
Which is that Barnardine?

ELBOW:

I can add colours to the chameleon,
A moiety of the throne a great king's daughter,
By how much the estate is green and yet ungovern'd:
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
What is't your highness' pleasure I shall do at
Unto the frowning judge? or who pronounced
AUTOLYCUS:

But we must win your grace to go with us
Tell me of corn!
Let us entreat you stay till after dinner.
They were trained together in their childhoods; and
Even as the waving sedges play with wind.
What, shall we suffer this? let's pluck him down:
'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
I come to know your pleasure.
Thou sing'st sweet music. Hark, come hither, Tyrrel
O'er-prized all popular rate, in my false brother
But might you do't, and do the world no wrong,
Through casements darted their desiring eyes
It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster.
If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
KING EDWARD IV:
As from my death-bed, thy last living leave.
ROMEO:
And so, have at thee!
First Soldier:
It stands your grace upon to do him right.
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
Now am I seated as my soul delights,
Until that act of parliament be repeal'd
Shuts up his windows, locks far daylight out
distant time stood, as it were, in a fruit-dish, a
PRINCE EDWARD:

What, not an oath? nay, then the world goes hard
To take is not to give.
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to
A man, as you are.
Which you deny already: yet we will ask;

neighbours, is grown into an unspeakable estate.
LADY ANNE:
Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough
I am arrived for fruitful Lombardy,
This is the cause that I, poor Margaret,
QUEEN MARGARET:

HORTENSIO:
Say that I did all this for love of her.

The napless vesture of humility;


Romeo!
ears grew to his tunes.
You have holp to ravish your own daughters and
The apprehension of his present portance,

WARWICK:

If, as his nature is, he fall in rage

And yet I wish but for the thing I have:

WARWICK:
LUCENTIO:
Lest you mistake the heavens are o'er our heads.

Here.
FLORIZEL:
For what is he they follow?  truly, gentlemen,


have missingly noted, he is of late much retired
Becomes more mock'd than fear'd; so our decrees,
The day serves well for them now. I have heard it

CAMILLO:
'Tis not the devil's crest.

loves not the common people.
Therefore at last I firmly am resolved
You say that Edward is your brother's son:
And shall the same give pardon to a slave?
JOHN OF GAUNT:
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
The next degree is England's royal throne;
Help, three o' the chiefest soldiers; I'll be one.


LEONTES:
I am their fathers mother; I will see them.
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
CAMILLO:



shall our poor city find: and all this is long of
KING RICHARD II:
YORK:
'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
Son:
Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts.
And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.
Doubt not

As my ripe revenue and due by birth
KATHARINA:
Of you, Lord Rivers, and, Lord Grey, of you;


Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich,
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
MIRANDA:
Yea, brother of Clarence, are thou here too?
And leave you to the hearing of the cause;
CLIFFORD:
MERCUTIO:
Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or



My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
Till Bolingbroke have pardon'd thee. Away, be gone!
Thou toad, thou toad, where is thy brother Clarence?
Farewell, York's wife, and queen of sad mischance:
List to your tribunes. Audience: peace, I say!
Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?

I will be sure my Katharina shall be fine.
CORIOLANUS:
What news abroad?
And to be talk'd with in sincerity,
Yet, for a greater confirmation,
As well I tender you and all of yours!
To make a shambles of the parliament-house!
Vouchsafe, defused infection of a man,
great matter.

Never sound more! when drums and trumpets shall


lie, do, and try whether I am not now a gentleman born.
ESCALUS:
Six years we banish him, and he shall go.

SICINIUS:
That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
Of thousands that had struck anointed kings
Why either were you ignorant to see't,
Second Citizen:
This is a strange repose, to be asleep
Whiles Warwick tells his title, smooths the wrong,
DUCHESS OF YORK:
BAPTISTA:

What shall I do? say what; what shall I do?
Than history can pattern, though devised

And make, no doubt, us happy by his reign.

Go about it.
Shepherd:
Citizens:
O, peace! the friar is come.
What, is he in his bed?
And hope to joy is little less in joy

Answer to us.

Out of the chamber with her! Were I a tyrant,

Eleven, sir.
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
But one that scorn to live in this disguise,
To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart?
The hour's now come;
To teach you gamut in a briefer sort,
That Angelo's forsworn; is it not strange?
Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made;
My dukedom to a beggarly denier,
And heap'd sedition on his crown at home.
Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.
The way twice o'er.
He had been aboard, carousing to his mates
Must either punish me, not being believed,
I trembling waked, and for a season after
Endue you with the people's voice: remains
Where is my father, and my mother, nurse?
Where is he? call him hither.
And drink it off; and, if you had the strength
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
DUCHESS OF YORK:
said, the fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is
To warn false traitors from the like attempts.
Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?
'Zounds, he dies: I had forgot the reward.
As best thou art experienced, since thou know'st

Before-time seen him thus.

O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone.
For 'twere no charity; yet, to wash your blood
My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!
O monstrous beast! how like a swine he lies!
The swifter speed the better.
bonneted, without any further deed to have them at
If he appeal the duke on ancient malice;
We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
FROTH:
Therefore be patient, take no note of him:




For what I bid them do: for we bid this be done,
Observed his courtship to the common people;
QUEEN MARGARET:
KING RICHARD II:

Nay, let us share thy thoughts, as thou dost ours.
I must begin with rudiments of art;
But O, the thorns we stand upon! Camillo,
CAPULET:
First Murderer:
WARWICK:
Stand we in good array; for they no doubt

If you'll implore it, that will free your life,

KATHARINA:
Go to the feast, revel and domineer,
ISABELLA:
ROMEO:
Uncle, you say the queen is at your house;

me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. I

My lords, when you shall know--as in this rage,
Lest in our need he might infect another
We speak no treason, man: we say the king
One that hath ever been God's enemy:
TRANIO:
My husband lost his life to get the crown;
Tendering my person's safety, hath appointed
I go.
ESCALUS:

As is the osprey to the fish, who takes it
Brought hither Henry Hereford thy bold son,
yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of

Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
A spider steep'd, and one may drink, depart,
Laugh'd in his face; and when with grief he wept,
I do repent. Alas! I have show'd too much
Clown:
THOMAS MOWBRAY:
Thou hast undone thyself, thy son and me;
Lord:
Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule
Proud can I never be of what I hate;
As the main point of this our after-meeting,



CLEOMENES:
My lord, you do me shameful injury,

Know man from man? dispute his own estate?
MENENIUS:
GLOUCESTER:
He tells her something
But from Lord Angelo by special charge.

Your well defended honour, you must pardon
Give mine the benefit of seniory,
Well, madam, and in health.
Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,
ANTONIO:
But make you ready your stiff bats and clubs:
To sing them too: when you do dance, I wish you


Ere this rude beast will profit.
My lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
GREEN:


To shrink mine arm up like a wither'd shrub;
O me, O me! My child, my only life,
BUSHY:
He's not confirm'd; we may deny him yet.
Provost:
To instruct her fully in those sciences,
O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
To be your prisoner should import offending;
And must she die for this? O, let her live,


You must lay down the treasures of your body
If he were putting to my house the brand
Shepherd:
We will unite the white rose and the red:
Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so

very pretty boy. O' my troth, I looked upon him o'
Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought
PRINCE EDWARD:
That honourable grief lodged here which burns
But since correction lieth in those hands
To mend her kissing with!
Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
FLORIZEL:



CAPULET:

But did you not request to have it cut?

In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then.
What countryman, I pray?
Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere
BUCKINGHAM:
You smell this business with a sense as cold

So fled his enemies my warlike father:
CLIFFORD:
And, for my name of George begins with G,
QUEEN ELIZABETH:


Very well; and could be content to give him good
Patience awhile, you'll hear the belly's answer.
Bastards and all.
And I, who at his hands received my life, him
I mean to stride your steed, and at all times
True, my good lord; I know you for no less.

And had the tribute of his supple knee,

Players:
Too familiar
we jest now, think you?
RICHARD:


Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;

And have you nuns no farther privileges?
occasion to use me for your own turn, you shall find
Madam, have comfort: all of us have cause
O, sweet my mother, cast me not away!

I am the sister of one Claudio,
Our Earl of Warwick, Edward's greatest friend.
No.
I'll not endure him.
But in your bride you bury brotherhood.

To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty,
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
Play too, but so disgraced a part, whose issue
Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come gentlemen,
KING EDWARD IV:

What is it else? a madness most discreet,
CORIOLANUS:
Love wrought these miracles. Bianca's love
that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his lady was but a

FRIAR PETER:
Of these fair edifices 'fore my wars

A holy day shall this be kept hereafter:


Let them not live to taste this land's increase
I will bethink me: come again tomorrow.
And thrice cried 'Courage, father! fight it out!'
MERCUTIO:
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
CAMILLO:
Let's fetch him off, or make remain alike.
And, for our coffers, with too great a court
BIONDELLO:
he cannot lie with his neighbour's wife, but it
Definitively thus I answer you.


He, but a duke, would have his son a king,
Thou call'dst me king.
And to be boy eternal.
That art to me as secret and as dear
That no dissension hinder government:
PRINCE EDWARD:
But my true love is grown to such excess

CORIOLANUS:
I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewd
Run with these false and most contrarious quests
These and these conveyances of our blood
When Oxford had me down, he rescued me,
Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,

Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
Your mother lives a witness to that vow--
Or hand of man hath done; therefore I keep it
Your mother was most true to wedlock, prince;

BISHOP OF ELY:
And be inheritor of thy desire.
carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears:



What must be shall be.
Made up to the deed, doth push on this proceeding:
But where is Kate? where is my lovely bride?
And I'll say nothing.
But I, that am not shaped for sportive tricks,
Showing an outward pity; yet you Pilates


Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true,
That thou return'st no greeting to thy friends?

Love me or love me not, I like the cap;

BIANCA:
But for the sunset of my brother's son

Nay, I do bear a brain:--but, as I said,
The wind sits fair for news to go to Ireland,


QUEEN MARGARET:
Thy father slew my father; therefore, die.
And with him are the Lord Aumerle, Lord Salisbury,
Hearing thy mildness praised in every town,
Ay, ay, so strives the woodcock with the gin.
TYBALT:

Cousin, stand forth, and look upon that man.
KING EDWARD IV:
LEONTES:
Pardon me, madam: little joy have I
A little of that worthy work perform'd

First kiss me, Kate, and we will.
Good night.
To give my hand opposed against my heart
Do not swear at all;

And leave you naked.
But lately splinter'd, knit, and join'd together,
Once more, what news?
I have been feasting with mine enemy,

The blood I drop is rather physical
Who is as free from touch or soil with her
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
Shall, for thy love, kill a far truer love;
He could not miss't.
Like one i' the stocks. Thou hast never in thy life
die a dry death.
has letters from the general, wherein he gives my
Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin

So wildly?
CORIOLANUS:
MONTAGUE:

TRANIO:
And darts his light through every guilty hole,

That Edward still should live! 'True, noble prince!'
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
What valour were it, when a cur doth grin,
Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee,
Anon do meet the senate.
I now name to you; and with speed so pace
Then patiently hear my impatience.
Clown:
LUCENTIO:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
O Buckingham, take heed of yonder dog!
That presses them and learns them first to bear,

TYBALT:
I say, a devil. Thinkest thou, Hortensio, though
Darest thou resolve to kill a friend of mine?

That with his peremptory 'shall,' being but

Whisper the spirits of thine enemies


ANGELO:


If all else fail, myself have power to die.

First Murderer:
To appoint myself in this vexation, sully


And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then.
At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
ARIEL:
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear


it!


Where is he?

A bridegroom say you? 'tis a groom indeed,
I cannot but be sad; so heavy sad
Pedant:
This louring tempest of your home-bred hate;
Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
conscience take it.
DUKE VINCENTIO:


And in this vow do chain my soul to thine!
CORIOLANUS:
AUFIDIUS:
And he shall signify from time to time
I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
Come on, come on; where is your boar-spear, man?

ARCHBISHOP OF YORK:
Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him,
It may not be.
Show duty, as mistaken all this while
EDWARD:

Our wish, which side should win: for either thou

To plague thee for thy foul misleading me.
Being well arrived from Delphos, are both landed,

extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage.
SICINIUS:
flowers o' the season
I mean, Hortensio is afeard of you.

When weeping made you break the story off,
LORD ROSS:
if my brother wrought by my pity, it should not be
LADY ANNE:
True, I talk of dreams,
And when the lion fawns upon the lamb,
VALERIA:
HORTENSIO:
like, which else would stand under grievous

Than in Lord Angelo.

Or in his emmence that fills it up,

ISABELLA:
Nurse:

And then?
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
MARCIUS:
With heigh! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
Able to bear against the great Aufidius
Let's along.
LADY ANNE:
GONZALO:
Where shivering cold and sickness pines the clime;
And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick,
The mayor in courtesy show'd me the castle,
On: those that think it is unlawful business
Has deserved prison, then abound in tears

'Twill be deliver'd back on good condition.
DUKE OF YORK:

The gracious mark o' the land, you have obscured
PETRUCHIO:
Widow:
SICINIUS:
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
FLORIZEL:
Mark your divorce, young sir,


Poor Clifford! how I scorn his worthless threats!

The glasses of my sight! a beggar's tongue
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
Catesby!
Belike the elder; Clarence will have the younger.
And very rich: but thou'rt too much my friend,
That I am touch'd with madness! Make not impossible
Most manifest, and not denied by himself.
CAPULET:



But touch this sparingly, as 'twere far off,

'Tis deeds must win the prize; and he of both
Come, go with me.
boldness of my cunning, I will lay myself in hazard.
Did perish with the infant. 'Tis your counsel
Could not believe but that I was in hell,
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
Hast thou that holy feeling in thy soul,

As frankly as a pin.
But will you woo this wild-cat?


Come your ways, sir; come.
Mistrust it not: for, sure, AEacides
the truth, I had as lief have the foppery of freedom
MIRANDA:

In most uneven and distracted manner. His actions

PETRUCHIO:
all men's; and for a hand, and a foot, and a body,
And hire those horses; I'll be with thee straight.
What is granted them?
I not purpose it.
For trust not him that hath once broken faith,--

Slandering a prince deserves it.
With raven's feather from unwholesome fen
Forgive me, cousin! Ah, dear Juliet,
considered, as too much I cannot, to be more
And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
Commend them and condemn them to her service
OXFORD:
So it must fall out
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Father, be quiet; he shall stay my leisure.

Nor I.

Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
PERDITA:
Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
know this to be true; therefore prepare yourself to
Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,

The king my uncle is to blame for this:
How! bribe me?
Proud setter up and puller down of kings!
BUCKINGHAM:
And, honest company, I thank you all,
Ha, banishment! be merciful, say 'death;'

Which is the god of my idolatry,
Now sadder, that you come so unprovided.
Be such a gosling to obey instinct, but stand,
good Christians ought to have.
And usest none in that true use indeed
ROMEO:
Servant:
Though full of our displeasure, yet we free thee

A woman.
For so he said he would: I hear him near.
To tie thee to my strong correction.
Would all themselves laugh mortal.

Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
Ay, sir; whom, I thank heaven, is an honest woman,--

COMINIUS:
ISABELLA:
MONTAGUE:
I prithee,
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
And what loss is it to be rid of care?
I, sir! ne'er a whit.
Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps,
Nurse:
Is proclamation made, that who finds Edward
MENENIUS:
I'll keep mine own, despite of all the world.
The higher powers forbid!

I do not like these several councils, I.
EDWARD:
I kneel before thee; and unproperly
In your retirement, I had swinged him soundly.
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
Light vanity, insatiate cormorant,
Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love,
Make haste, I say.
So many greedy looks of young and old
A sleeping potion; which so took effect
But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
Shall rust upon my weapon, till thy blood,
The helms o' the state, who care for you like fathers,
To murder her I married.
And how she was beguiled and surprised,
That you may know you shall not want, one word.
And I'll keep London with my soldiers.

Go, tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
Though little fire grows great with little wind,
Wishing his foot were equal with his eye,
I was once before him for getting a wench with child.


man! Would the duke that is absent have done this?
Ghost of BUCKINGHAM:
To execute the noble duke at Calais.
First Senator:
Love loving not itself none other can.
As good to chide the waves as speak them fair.
How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
My lords of England, let me tell you this:

Who will believe thee, Isabel?
Nurse:
Which woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep,
Such goodly things as you!

ANGELO:
He's within, sir, but not to be spoken withal.
So be thy fortune in this royal fight!
Our sorrow with our comfort.
me: for the life to come, I sleep out the thought
COMINIUS:
Nay, come, sit down; then on.
We may digest our complots in some form.
To sunder them that yoke so well together.

And then pursue me as you draw your bow.
MENENIUS:
ROMEO:

Why, what of that?
Then is he more beholding to you than I.
Poor key-cold figure of a holy king!
And with a virtuous vizard hide foul guile!
A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
So I by that; it is my day, my life.
It seem'd, appear'd to Rome. By the discovery.
Be so received. But thus: if powers divine
O ill-dispersing wind of misery!

The curse my noble father laid on thee,
I am too childish-foolish for this world.
YORK:
ROMEO:
Let's choose executors and talk of wills:
Shall be extinct with age and endless night;
To strengthen and support King Edward's place.
Make not too rash a trial of him, for
I told your majesty as much before:
LADY ANNE:
Why do we finger thus? I cannot rest
So is the equal of this fell war.
Provost:
counterfeitly; that is, sir, I will counterfeit the
CLAUDIO:
I will not go to-day; and ere I do,
Away! I say; commend me to thy master.

BALTHASAR:
KING HENRY VI:
meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.

OXFORD:
But with a lingering dram that should not work
With whom my soul is any jot at odds
For ever may my knees grow to the earth,

Yea, Richard, when I know; for I protest
My swift command, though I with death and with
Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford's king:
But only hope:

Upon a barren mountain and still winter
Under whose heavy sense your brother's life
QUEEN:
Pursuivant:
And nobleness impose: at least thus much:

sewed up again; and that I'll prove upon thee,
'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
Were't not that, by great preservation,
DERBY:
Say it be, 'tis true.
Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;
With nimble soles: I have a soul of lead
And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
Shall be when your first queen's again in breath;
No occupation; all men idle, all;
Gentleman:

KING RICHARD II:
My master's.
Must stead us all and me amongst the rest,
His charters and his customary rights;
What are you sewing here? A fine spot, in good
You must to Pomfret, not unto the Tower.
Fit for her turn, well read in poetry
It is my lady, O, it is my love!
Spread further.


Here on this molehill will I sit me down.
My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre,
The door is open, sir; there lies your way;
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,

Second Messenger:
With her companion grief must end her life.
If not, why cease you till you are so?

O, how I long to have some chat with her!
And reverend looker on, of two fair queens.

Nay, then, 'tis time to stir him from his trance.
To answer that, I should confess to you.
Indeed, left nothing fitting for the purpose
That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonous

About it; for it stands me much upon,
As I remember, Henry the Sixth
You break no privilege nor charter there.
Not?


Do you the office, friar; which consummate,

Could I repair what she will wear in me,
How will my mother for a father's death
Achieve the elder, set the younger free
By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand'st,
And were they to be ruled, and not to rule,
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
I am content to be Lucentio,

VINCENTIO:
Is this the man that you did tell us of?
But what your jealousies awake, I tell you
That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.
This is that banish'd haughty Montague,
This is his lordship's man.
Full half an hour.

Hath Death lain with thy wife. There she lies,

And I'll be chief to bring him down again:
Take him and cut him out in little stars,

that thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him
But he must die to-morrow?
ISABELLA:
Now York and Lancaster are reconciled.
Your highness aims at, if I aim aright.
Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
What cheer? how is't with you, best brother?
With cloth of any colour.
Dear for her reputation through the world,
Is not the king's name twenty thousand names?
And think upon my bidding.
LADY CAPULET:
And if the boy have not a woman's gift
Nurse! What should she do here?


And bid him come to take his last farewell.
Thou dost, and think'st it much to tread the ooze
Who's this? O God! it is my father's face,
Against the Greeks that would have enter'd Troy.
O, may such purple tears be alway shed
To say extremity was the trier of spirits;
Or hoop his body more with thy embraces,
My sovereign liege, I do beseech your majesty
To see you so attired, sworn, I think,

Whither?
And lies, and lies: there is my bond of faith,
And look upon, as if the tragedy

To be acknowledged: thou a sceptre's heir,
Good morrow, neighbour Baptista.
ARIEL:
And their true sovereign, whom they must obey?
Sound, sound, sound, sound!
First Musician:
YORK:
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
No, no: but all this did I know before.
At an unusual hour?
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
JULIET:
So that by this intelligence we learn
ANTONIO:

And here I take the unfeigned oath,
For your best health and recreation.

Prosperity's the very bond of love,
O king, believe not this hard-hearted man!
Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird,
Besides, this place is famous for the creatures

Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle lambs,
They've not prepared for us.

Fie, sirrah! a bawd, a wicked bawd!
Thinking upon his services, took from you
Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament
My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
DERBY:
And four shall quickly draw out my command,

JULIET:
For that he has,


That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
GRUMIO:

Thou shouldst a husband take by my consent,
My lord, some two days since I saw the prince,
He shortens four years of my son's exile:
Thorough my rust! and how his pity
ANGELO:
First Servant:
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
For when I was a king, my flatterers
Of its right father. Blossom, speed thee well!
ANGELO:

with them:'
In arms as sound as when I woo'd, in heart

Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
There is none worthy,


O, true, good Catesby: bid him levy straight
Shepherd:
What would you have me do? I am a subject,
And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell
Will answer in mine honour.
Being criminal, in double violation
I speak not this as doubting any here


Or stronger for your need.
I'll bear thee hence; and let them fight that will,
O my poor father!
MENENIUS:
But see where Somerset and Clarence come!
What now remains, my lords, for us to do
Let him be apprehended.
For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
PETRUCHIO:
Flock to their aid, and still their power increaseth.
I gave him no order; I gave him the stuff.
PRINCE:
What think you, if he were convey'd to bed,


Yet ask.
The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;
Yet he is come.

Unto the wished haven of my bliss.
Forerunning more requital.

That when he speaks not like a citizen,
RATCLIFF:
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:


Citizens:
PETRUCHIO:
We will not from the helm to sit and weep,
To make a false one.
Third Citizen:
Provost:

To think our former state a happy dream;
EDWARD:
QUEEN MARGARET:
Bring forth these men.
And dares him to set forward to the fight.



All in Bohemia's well; this satisfaction
EDWARD:
Such hideous cries, that with the very noise

Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
Naught to do with mistress Shore! I tell thee, fellow,


The noble knot he made.
Fell Warwick's brother and by that our foe.
AUTOLYCUS:
GLOUCESTER:
to the wall.
My daughter's mother thinks it with her soul.
Why, then you mean not as I thought you did.
Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.

When you and I met at Saint Alban's last,
And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour.
Then thou dwellest with daws too?
KING EDWARD IV:
I may not, verily.
What? I say,

Of whence are you?
Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
He is coming.
So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom.
Sir, I will serve him; for I do find your hangman is
And thou with all pleased, that hast all achieved!
To pay their awful duty to our presence?
action of slander too.

LADY ANNE:

Your voices therefore.' When we granted that,
shall anon over-read it at your pleasure; where you
Thus play I in one person many people,
Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry
Shepherd:
I'll set a bank of rue, sour herb of grace:
Cursed be the hand that made these fatal holes!
Master lieutenant, pray you, by your leave,
Name not the god, thou boy of tears!
BIONDELLO:
What said the wench when he rose again?
No marrying 'mong his subjects?
'Twixt you there's difference; but the fall of either


POMPEY:
I beseech your highness, do not marry me to a whore.
Cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
All's well; and might have been much better, if
That only like a gulf it did remain
To be her men and wear her livery:
Nurse:
May well abate the over-merry spleen
GREGORY:
redeem you from your gyves; if not, you shall have
KATHARINA:
Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart,
And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,
Pisa renowned for grave citizens.
Thou art poor'st of all; then shortly art thou mine.
thankful to thee shall be my study, and my profit
Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd,
Farewell, my blood; which if to-day thou shed,

To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.

Would I be guilty of so deep a sin.
look upon his removedness; from whom I have this
Their power, I think, is thirty thousand strong:
Marry. God forbid!
than you'ld think, sister.
Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
Would not the beggar then forget himself?
What! look upon my brother: both your pardons,
A sad tale's best for winter: I have one
I must be answer'd. Dost thou hear, Camillo,
Have at thee, coward!
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
And cried 'A crown, or else a glorious tomb!
Where is thy conscience now?
EDWARD:
Remain a pinch'd thing; yea, a very trick
you much mirth.
Still ride in triumph over all mischance.
Speak freely what you think.
I take my leave with many thousand thanks.

Good faith, and when I met this holy man,
Repent what you have spoke.
the tyrant.
Keep house and port and servants as I should:
Know, Rome, that all alone Marcius did fight
CORIOLANUS:

The bleeding witness of her hatred by;
You are i' the right, sir: 'tis for my mistress.
See how the surly Warwick mans the wall!
ARIEL:
Do with your injuries as seems you best,
I will away towards Barnet presently,
GLOUCESTER:
And when I mount, alive may I not light,
Come, sir, along with us.
But a hare that is hoar
Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear
ROMEO:
all,--we shall advise this wronged maid to stead up
But Montague is bound as well as I,
Sir, have pity;
Fair lovely maid, once more good day to thee.
GREY:
AUFIDIUS:


Have I not told thee how I was cozened by the way
Which a dismiss'd offence would after gall;
Were never for a piece of beauty rarer,
Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain,

To Coriolanus come all joy and honour!
PETRUCHIO:

VOLUMNIA:


My lord?
Should be! should--buzz!
Were for myself: and so, my lord, adieu.
I yield all this;
patience; and, in roaring for a chamber-pot,
From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty:
Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
FLORIZEL:
However God or fortune cast my lot,
GRUMIO:
it to that end: though soft-conscienced men can be
MISTRESS OVERDONE:


GLOUCESTER:
I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard
DUKE OF YORK:
First Gentleman:

LUCENTIO:
It shall be so, it shall be so.
I thank his grace, I know he loves me well;
Such a fellow is not to be talked withal. Away with
Of sprites and goblins.
For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
I am a villain: yet I lie. I am not.
Call, good Mercutio.
Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
O, that she knew she were!
To run upon the sharp wind of the north,

Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his
And am I guerdon'd at the last with shame?
Warm and new kill'd.
One: tell.
Which waits upon worn times hath something seized

O bitter consequence,
Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.
Being a murderer, though he were my brother.
Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
the love of Juno, let's go.

To merit bliss by making me despair:
Lord Angelo? they have confessed you did.
For that, being one o' the lowest, basest, poorest,

To think upon you.
CLIFFORD:
There have been,
FERDINAND:
I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither on my legs.
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
Rivers and Dorset, you were standers by,
The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home.
Yes, if you will, my lord.
Expedient manage must be made, my liege,

That staggers thus my person. Exton, thy fierce hand
ANTONIO:
GLOUCESTER:

Why stand'st thou still, and go'st not to the duke?
BRUTUS:
And so was I: I'll bear you company.
More fearful, is deliver'd.


And downright languish'd. Leave me solely: go,
Pardon me, God, I knew not what I did!
DUKE VINCENTIO:
tell you, and is almost mature for the violent
Before I would have granted to that act.
LUCENTIO:
Ay, wherefore else guard we his royal tent,
GLOUCESTER:
LADY CAPULET:
CORIOLANUS:
Well, my lord.

ESCALUS:

DUKE OF AUMERLE:
And, by thy guess, how nigh is Clarence now?
Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
To make an act of tragic violence:
No doubt, shall then and till then govern well.
Than can my care-tuned tongue deliver him!
LEONTES:
Say you the like to him?
By circumstance, to curse thy cursed self.
Thy life hath that dishonour'd.
Hear me, people; peace!
You are the king King Edward hath deposed;
envious a scholar, a statesman and a soldier.
Step forth mine advocate; at your request
For every inch of woman in the world,
Say you?
SICINIUS:
FLORIZEL:


Nay, nothing; all is said
Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
And so it is received. Now, pious sir,
Clown:
And now changed to 'The Beggar and the King.'
Under my burthen groan'd; which raised in me
TRANIO:
VINCENTIO:
England hath long been mad, and scarr'd herself;
She is hard by with twenty thousand men;
What, in metre?

'Tis time
To hear him named, and cannot come to him.
Will have your tongue too. This is a creature,
And ample interchange of sweet discourse,

Earth gapes, hell burns, fiends roar, saints pray.
both sides. Farewell: yet for the love I bear my
LUCIO:
'Tis time; descend; be stone no more; approach;
Which then blew bitterly against our faces,


And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
Captain:

POLIXENES:
Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head,
Apprehend
I had rather have my wounds to heal again
KING HENRY VI:
O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say
the hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Out
Believe me, I speak as my understanding instructs me
Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
in the chine; troubled with the lampass, infected
And, Will you, nill you, I will marry you.
You so remain.

And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
ISABELLA:
And gape at widest to glut him.
Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he!
I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes.
Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.
The seal'd-up oracle, by the hand deliver'd
O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!


I drew to part them: in the instant came
PERDITA:

I know, in honour, O, that ever I

DORCAS:

A shepherd's daughter,
RIVERS:
Provost:
LEONTES:
If you do fight against your country's foes,
That most are busied when they're most alone,
For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt,
Yond crickets shall not hear it.
BUCKINGHAM:

LEONTES:
KING HENRY VI:
GLOUCESTER:
Sir Edward Courtney, and the haughty prelate
And Henry is my king, Warwick his subject.

Of all thy suitors, here I charge thee, tell
AUFIDIUS:
No; if I mistake
thy old father Menenius does! O my son, my son!
command at all hours.

The name of king? o' God's name, let it go:

approbation.
SICINIUS:
I wonder at this haste; that I must wed
SEBASTIAN:
CLARENCE:

A gentleman.
No, no; no man saw 'em.

Forslow no longer, make we hence amain.
NORFOLK:
Lord Marshal:

We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
Hath seized the wasteful king. O, what pity is it
The bastard brains with these my proper hands
For we to-morrow hold divided councils,
Can from his mother win the Duke of York,
More than a wild exposture to each chance
Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.

First Servingman:
O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeased
How!
But come, young waverer, come, go with me,
Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.
CATESBY:
Reward to him that brings the traitor in?
PROSPERO:
Or breed upon our absence; that may blow
To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispersed and fled.

KATHARINA:
Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome,
But, soft! company is coming here.

ISABELLA:
KING HENRY VI:
Curster than she? why, 'tis impossible.
CLAUDIO:
To frustrate both his oath and what beside

And so I say, I'll cut the causes off,

ROMEO:
PETRUCHIO:
MENENIUS:
And what of him?
Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
Had so much grace to put it in my mind.
had now, for putting the hand in the pocket and
Gentle my liege,--

As any ear can hear. Come, let's not weep.
Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand


Happiness courts thee in her best array;
thy master's father, Vincentio?

In God's name, what art thou?
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
Until the elder sister first be wed:
Pass no further.

KING RICHARD II:

YORK:
virtues it was, but he was certainly whipped out of the court.
AUTOLYCUS:
As the dead carcasses of unburied men
And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl;
POLIXENES:
How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
Well, well, put up your sword.
My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep.
First Watchman:
ARIEL:
Find shapes of grief, more than himself, to wail;
You chose her; then I'ld shriek, that even your ears
Officer:
PRINCE EDWARD:
As blameful as the executioner?
It is too heavy for your grace to wear.

Unless it be whilst some tormenting dream
Sometimes her head on one side, some another;
And I will send you to my brother Gloucester,

From all such devils, good Lord deliver us!
LUCIO:

To overgo thy plaints and drown thy cries!
Upon a pleasing treaty, and have hearts
He's one honest enough: would all the rest were so!
I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.

Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?'

Third Conspirator:
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
And in the taste confounds the appetite:


BRUTUS:
Even now we heard the news: ah, could'st thou fly!
My father came untimely to his death?
A match!
They'll sit by the fire, and presume to know


His prayers are full of false hypocrisy;
But if black scandal or foul-faced reproach
For young hot colts being raged do rage the more.
For hunting was his daily exercise.
That hunger broke stone walls, that dogs must eat,
And I am constant. Titus Lartius, thou
Hard-hearted Clifford, take me from the world:
ROMEO:
By thy dame Partlet here. Take up the bastard;
Than some that have accused them wear their hats.
Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son,
DORSET:
And stood against them, as the hope of Troy
will I frame and make fit for his attempt. If you
DUKE VINCENTIO:
'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together,
YORK:

And must be buried but as an intent
Old sir, I know


My brave spirit!
And all things answerable to this portion.
Desire to breed by me. Here's flowers for you;

To speak of peace or war.
Thanks, noble peer;
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
And be not easily won to our request:
Come, cousin, let us tell the queen these news.
But from deceit bred by necessity;
HENRY PERCY:
I do not like this news.
Tell her I send to her my kind commends;

Her portion equal his.
with man, woman, or child.
That brought you forth this boy, to keep your name
As bring me to the sight of Isabella,
To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
him.
TRANIO:

CAMILLO:
Even in these looks I made.
Lord Mayor:
our Roman power: your lord and Titus Lartius are set
And struck him on his knee: in that day's feats,
Clown:

You say well.
KATHARINA:
O that he were alive, and here beholding
Even to the guilt or the purgation.
SAMPSON:
And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
To see the life as lively mock'd as ever
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
When I wore it at your daughter's marriage?
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
Which in their summer beauty kiss'd each other.

We'll pass the business privately and well.

But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
'Tis bargain'd 'twixt us twain, being alone,
For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced

Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford;
Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
Clown:

At thy choice, then:
our guests? 'tis well they are whispering: clamour
To trust the mockery of unquiet slumbers
What, do you tremble? are you all afraid?
an unshunned consequence; it must be so. Art going
KING RICHARD III:
Hides not his visage from our cottage but
That we could hear no news of his repair?
BIANCA:
Twenty-three days
You, that are king, though he do wear the crown,
My lord, wise men ne'er sit and wail their woes,
Come, come, you are well understood to be a
Self against self: O, preposterous


As if we had them not. Spirits are not finely touch'd


Though yet she speak not. Mark a little while.
MARIANA:
And so swear I, my lord
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
A creature unprepared, unmeet for death;
by law: I'll not budge an inch, boy: let him come,

Sir, a word ere you go;
What thou shouldst be: the occasion speaks thee, and
SICINIUS:


Since thou, created to be awed by man,

As loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
I doubt not but to ride as fast as York:
LARTIUS:
DUKE OF YORK:
KING HENRY VI:
EDWARD:
Go, by this token: rise, and lend thine ear:
had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do,
My mind is changed, sir, my mind is changed.
'Be serviceable to my son,' quoth he,
Nay, I dare not swear it.
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
I.
Afresh within me, and these thy offices,
HORTENSIO:

GLOUCESTER:
For I dare so far free him--made him fear'd,
Were he the butcher of my son, he should
Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands:
Never to marry but by my free leave?
Nay then you jest, and now I well perceive

And so, I take my leave, and thank you both.
SAMPSON:

CORIOLANUS:
Be not so long to speak; I long to die,
PROSPERO:

And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
person than any of us all.
Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile,

SICINIUS:

By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
Sun that warms you here shall shine on me;

ISABELLA:
COMINIUS:
DUKE VINCENTIO:
That brings me food to make misfortune live?
The ground is bloody; search about the churchyard:
Lords, knights, and gentlemen, what I should say
Better it were they all came by the father,

Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio.
I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,--
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!





By any in this presence, I desire
LADY ANNE:
Lords, you that here are under our arrest,

He bade me say so--more than all the sceptres

Look in his youth to have him so cut off

The miserable have no other medicine
Well, what then?
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
BUCKINGHAM:
A lack, when once our grace we have forgot,
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
His arms in this sad knot.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me:
What! loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
He and Aufidius can no more atone
Of our proceedings here: on the marketplace,

It is a man's voice. Gentle Isabella,
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
And send the hearers weeping to their beds:
Thy knee bussing the stones--for in such business
will you dismiss the people?
Though every drop of water swear against it
Poor queen! so that thy state might be no worse,

Call forth an officer.
Another thing to fall. I not deny,

A course of learning and ingenious studies.
As in a theatre, the eyes of men,
BUSHY:
CLAUDIO:

I drink, I eat, array myself, and live.
He hath abused your powers.



Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burthen;
BIONDELLO:

Of him that did not ask, but mock, bestow
Your royal ear abused. First, hath this woman


Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he
Whither?
Is piled upon his faith and will continue
using painting, do prove my occupation a mystery:
O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My
Cover your heads and mock not flesh and blood
With all the honours on my brother: whereon,
Making not reservation of yourselves,
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
And, friends unknown, you shall bear witness to 't:
VIRGILIA:
NORTHUMBERLAND:
I warrant thee.
About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
To beg of Hob and Dick, that do appear,
But love, fair looks and true obedience;
An eye-sore to our solemn festival!
This fair alliance quickly shall call home

Romeo! O, pale! Who else? what, Paris too?
Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him
shrift and advise him for a better place. Yet you

GONZALO:
Yet heavens are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
SEBASTIAN:
Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
Lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
The ruin of the state.
She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
This is that face, thou cruel Angelo,
Methought their souls, whose bodies Richard murder'd,
Thou mayst co-join with something; and thou dost,

NORTHUMBERLAND:
From the still-vex'd Bermoothes, there she's hid:
Or lace for your cape,

The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
How high a pitch his resolution soars!
Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to thee
So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back!

LUCENTIO:


Well, jest on, brothers: I can tell you both
The sky doth frown and lour upon our army.
First Gentleman:
Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest
But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again,
When I was last in Holborn,

TYBALT:
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:
MENENIUS:
WARWICK:
His noble cousin is right welcome hither;
BIONDELLO:



brief in goodness; but grace, being the soul of
hanging, yields a careful man work.
CURTIS:
FLORIZEL:
Unto the brother of your loving bride;

father and the gentlemen are in sad talk, and we'll
renown made it not stir, was pleased to let him seek
Provost:
Had time cohered with place or place with wishing,
And tell sad stories of the death of kings;
How now, Catesby, what says your lord?
Romeo is coming.
To torture thee the more, being what thou art.
very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
And so in progress to be hatch'd and born,
When as the enemy hath been ten to one:
acre of barren ground, long heath, brown furze, any

For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn,

For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
Have leave and leisure to make love to her
How dost thou know that, constable?
God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
him our commission; talk no more.
HORTENSIO:

Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master
The mad-brain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff


And will deny him:
Then be it as you will; for 'tis my right,

Whom I would save, had a most noble father!
To bide upon't, thou art not honest, or,



What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;
Are you now going to dispatch this deed?

Still sleep mock'd death: behold, and say 'tis well.
Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.

But, as I say, such as become a soldier,
Lords, I protest, my soul is full of woe,


'Tis hoped his sickness is discharged.
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
KATHARINA:
Heaven give your spirits comfort!
I may be negligent, foolish and fearful;

Comes it not something near?
Therefore present to her--as sometime Margaret
Relenting fool, and shallow, changing woman!
Your praises are too large: but that your youth,
What mutter you, or what conspire you, lords?
What then?
Faith, we hear fearful news.
With Lady Margery, your midwife there,
But was not this nigh shore?


For in a quarrel since I came ashore
This feast of battle with mine adversary.

ISABELLA:
Now are they come.

Now, for this night, let's harbour here in York;

And see what death is doing.
Is this the daughter of a king?
As doth a sail, fill'd with a fretting gust,

My inch of taper will be burnt and done,

First Citizen:
Tell him from me, as he will win my love,
PETRUCHIO:

What says my brother?
Hath cost me an hundred crowns since supper-time.

And leave you to your graver steps. Hermione,

has left with thee: if this be a horseman's coat,
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords

Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind;
That came too lag to see him buried.

Unless he take the course that you have done,

CORIOLANUS:
Do seem to be of ours?
Let's purge this choler without letting blood:
Give me another horse: bind up my wounds.
Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate:
Craft against vice I must apply:
Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard;
Take heed; for he holds vengeance in his hands,
Makes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen--your son
Than all the complete armour that thou wear'st!
Not the king's crown, nor the deputed sword,
A lady like me, with a love even such,
I protest I love the duke as I love myself.
But yet my caution was more pertinent
They mock thee, Clifford: swear as thou wast wont.
And charges him my lord, with such a time
why, that's nothing; an he begin once, he'll rail in
My power? Alas, I doubt--
Methought I saw a thousand fearful wrecks;
To reach at victory above my head,
seven years
For through this laund anon the deer will come;
MENENIUS:
When you are gentle, you shall have one too,
KING RICHARD II:
ESCALUS:
Page:
So, underneath the belly of their steeds,
Till his lost child be found? which that it shall,
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss.
Broke the possession of a royal bed

Second Officer:
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
Should well agree with our external parts?
And by the royalties of both your bloods,
most homely shepherd; a man, they say, that from

How have you slept, my lord?

are to be smiled at, their offences being so
At thy great glory. Look not to the ground,
Clown:

LUCIO:
Bohemia stays here longer.
I would not spend another such a night,
Servant:
The steeled gaoler is the friend of men.
Yea, say you so?

In God's name, lead; your king's name be obey'd:
Each part, deprived of supple government,
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
And summon him to-morrow to the Tower,

Look, how thou dream'st! I say again, give out
You have but jested with me all this while:
BAPTISTA:
wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun:
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
MENENIUS:
Let them have cushions by you. You are plebeians,
BONA:
Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son,
Madam.
Dost grant me, hedgehog? then, God grant me too
We say that Shore's wife hath a pretty foot,
MIRANDA:
Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.
For better times to come. Friar, advise him;
I am denied to sue my livery here,
I thought, by your readiness in the office, you had
A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall

I fear, too early: for my mind misgives
Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? an
LADY ANNE:
And gentle, kind, effeminate remorse,
That's enough.
Is, I know how to curse. The red plague rid you
And, as thou seest, ourselves in heavy plight.
Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,
Now I perceive thou art a reverend father;
Who has a charter to extol her blood,
signet is not strange to you.
Most mighty liege, and my companion peers,
BAPTISTA:
Had not been broken, nor my brother slain:
Wert thou the Hector
I thank my God for my humility.
And with her breath she did perfume the air:
My husband bids me; now I will unmask.
I'll have mine action of battery on thee.
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest
None else of name and noble estimate.
My prettiest Perdita!



Their own particular thrifts, they would do that
And presently, when you have drawn your number,

GLOUCESTER:
Promotion follows. If I could find example
Having my freedom, boast of nothing else
Good my friends,
The waters swell before a boisterous storm.
First Servant:

The one as famous for a scolding tongue
CURTIS:
LADY CAPULET:
oak not to be wind-shaken.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Make good this ostentation, and you shall

HENRY PERCY:

JULIET:
By this, I hope, she hath a son for me.
It was i' the offering!
Say yea to thy desires. A thousand welcomes!
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
LADY ANNE:

Look, sir, your mother!
It were no less; but yet I'll make a pause.
That thou no more shalt see this knack, as never
No more such wives; therefore, no wife: one worse,
under her horse; thou shouldst have heard in how
LUCIO:


When will he be here?
Had I plantation of this isle, my lord,--
Save you, sir.
Young MARCIUS:


CLARENCE:
I humbly thank you.
They have ta'en note of us: keep on your way.
NORTHUMBERLAND:
PETRUCHIO:

'Twere a perpetual spoil: and till we call'd
He was a kind of nothing, titleless,
God save your majesty! and well met, gentlemen:
Petruchio, shall I then come roundly to thee
Yet here Prince Edward stands, King Henry's son.


Whether I blush or no: howbeit, I thank you.
If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness.
Ay me! sad hours seem long.
What, wilt thou not? then, Clarence, do it thou.
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
house; next, this is a respected fellow; and his
so money comes withal.
Is the king dead? the empire unpossess'd?

Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
Let us consult upon to-morrow's business
Yet, to have join'd with France in such alliance
Scorning whate'er you can afflict me with.
Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break,
When the tongue's office should be prodigal
Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
Than I can wish to adders, spiders, toads,

Ay, almost slain, for he is taken prisoner,
BRAKENBURY:
That's a brave fellow; but he's vengeance proud, and
God's bread! it makes me mad:
POMPEY:
Until the white rose that I wear be dyed
Escalus.
VALERIA:
Yours, if you talk of tails: and so farewell.
Brother, thou shalt to London presently,
right-hand file? do you?
Since last I went to France to fetch his queen:

QUEEN MARGARET:
To cry to the sea that roar'd to us, to sigh
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
I warrant it is: and thy head stands so tickle on
Minion, thou liest. Is't not Hortensio?
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
And this for Rutland; both bound to revenge,
But Romeo may not; he is banished:
Its tenderness, and make itself a pastime
In peril to incur your former malady,
I would they would forget me, like the virtues
cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make
your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
pennyworth on his side be the worst, yet hold thee,
MENENIUS:
To his most royal person, hither come
O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!

Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
Which is for me less easy to commit
And how she's like to be Lucentio's wife.
By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.
MISTRESS OVERDONE:
me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
I will appear, and fight.
So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts
He hath songs for man or woman, of all sizes; no
BUCKINGHAM:
Not so, not so; his life is parallel'd
Tellest thou me of 'ifs'?  Thou art a traitor:
The king is not at the palace; he is gone aboard a
They are at hand, and you shall quickly know.
Not for myself, Lord Warwick, but my son,
Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
your offices?

Will not so graceless be to be ingrate.
She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?

Condemn'd upon the act of fornication
And copy of the father, eye, nose, lip,
If you be maid or no?
By every syllable a faithful verity:
PAULINA:
for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
Your grace hath still been famed for virtuous;

Even by your own.
POMPEY:



See, what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
POLIXENES:
Come, come.

Which finds it an inforced pilgrimage.
Who should that be? belike, unlook'd-for friends.
The sum of all I can, I have disclosed;
RATCLIFF:
CAMILLO:
ROMEO:

O Ned, sweet Ned! speak to thy mother, boy!
And hang it round with all my wanton pictures:
Master Barnardine!
MOPSA:
GREMIO:
BAPTISTA:
And feebling such as stand not in their liking
Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste,
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
And by the bright track of his fiery car,
have none.
AUTOLYCUS:
Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous art
Then further, all dissembling set aside,
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
accuseth him; he cannot swear, but it cheques him;

CLAUDIO:
If I would yield him my virginity,

Which, mellow'd by the stealing hours of time,
LARTIUS:
KING RICHARD III:

What! was it you that would be England's king?
CAMILLO:
To revel it with him and his new bride:
A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet?


Or not remember what I must be now!
Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil,
But as the unthought-on accident is guilty
And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.

My lords, we were forewarned of your coming,
GLOUCESTER:
Fly, father, fly! for all your friends are fled,
Fourth Messenger:
And good supporters are you.
CATESBY:
And, mutually participate, did minister
No more words, we beseech you.
thee: yet for the outside of thy poverty we must

What must I do?
I seal upon the lips of this sweet babe.
From Ravenspurgh to Cotswold will be found

One fire drives out one fire; one nail, one nail;
LARTIUS:
You never spoke what did become you less

Be hostages for Rome.
For so I have strew'd it in the common ear,
The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul!
ROMEO:
Farewell till soon.
It was the swift celerity of his death,
No more amazement: tell your piteous heart
Shalt break into corruption: thou shalt think,

I pray thee, gentle keeper, stay by me;
He's irremoveable,
This is the hand that stabb'd thy father York;
Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail!
FLORIZEL:
Beseech you, tenderly apply to her
And shall I stand, and thou sit in my throne?
And set thy diadem upon my head;
All books of love, see that at any hand;
O that I had him,
certain that when he makes water his urine is
KING RICHARD III:
Even in condition of the worst degree,

A challenge, on my life.
His majesty hath straitly given in charge
for our own doth little advantage. If he be not
It adds more sorrow to my want of joy:

Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
Boatswain:
Ay, as an ostler, that for the poorest piece
Lord Mayor:
Well, go, prepare yourself.
No, to their lives bad friends were contrary.
Were equal poise of sin and charity.
GLOUCESTER:
A man, the worst about you.
Come thou on my side, and entreat for me,


This day my sister should the cloister enter



GEORGE:

fardel will make him scratch his beard.
As she lived now.
How is it with Titus Lartius?
KING RICHARD III:
sights: the men are not yet cold under water, nor
Second Murderer:
Why, is not Oxford here another anchor?
I come about my brother.
O,'tis Marcius!
Against his brother and his lawful king?
Give me thy hand: I will swear to the prince thou

DORSET:
Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
AUTOLYCUS:
That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
Therefore a health to all that shot and miss'd.
Thou wilt revolt, and fly to him, I fear.
Are stuck upon thee: volumes of report
Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast,
As else I would be, were the day prolong'd.
The duke comes home to-morrow; nay, dry your eyes;
Mine, full of sorrow and heart's discontent.

I' the city of kites and crows.
That can less hide his love or hate than he;

Not decked with diamonds and Indian stones,
DION:
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
He does it under name of perfect love;
Come, come, peace.
go on the right hand: I will but look upon the
GREMIO:
considering the weather, a taller man than I will
With one soft kiss a thousand furlongs ere
After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.

And I from heaven banish'd as from hence!
She shall be married to this noble earl.
I neither know it nor can learn of him.

KING RICHARD II:
Richard yet lives, hell's black intelligencer,
AUTOLYCUS:
What authority surfeits on would relieve us: if they
We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will obey.
We shall be shorten'd in our aim, which was
How well resembles it the prime of youth,

Why, it contains no king?
If thou inclinest that way, thou art a coward,
Unless his noble mother, and his wife;
Oh, he is young and his minority
Till you have done your business in the city:

ANGELO:
I must needs wake you; Lady! lady! lady!
fairly last night.
I mean, in bearing weight of government,
GREMIO:
KING EDWARD IV:
First Huntsman:

Provost:
Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me:
Chide me, dear stone, that I may say indeed
Till time lend friends and friends their helpful swords.
Baccare! you are marvellous forward.
need none, so long as I live.
And added years to his short banishment,

CURTIS:
As now it coldly stands, when first I woo'd her!
GLOUCESTER:
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy,
To this same place, to this same monument.
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
Write up his title with usurping blood.
I was by at the opening of the fardel, heard the old
From me do back receive the flour of all,
Have you importuned him by any means?
Such proclamation hath been made, my liege.
And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
Nay, come away.

Than was that young and princely gentleman.
And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age,
queen's picture. Come, follow us: we'll be thy
LUCIO:
As draw his sword; yet he hath left undone
The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
The date is out of such prolixity:
Methinks I hear hither your husband's drum,
His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.
While I myself will lead a private life
A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
ROMEO:
I have been i' the market-place; and, sir,'tis fit
On purpose trimm'd up for Semiramis.
My lord,
The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?
Masterly done:

First Murderer:
him.
An it had not fallen flat-long.
I am a woeful suitor to your honour,
Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
To banish him that struck more blows for Rome
Thy grandfather, Roger Mortimer, Earl of March:
A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
HASTINGS:
That look too lofty in our commonwealth:

DUKE VINCENTIO:
Correction and instruction must both work
PETRUCHIO:
LARTIUS:
To make her speak as move.

Draw forth thy weapon, we are beset with thieves;
And that the trunk may be discharged of breath

So mighty and so many my defects,
First Murderer:
3 KING HENRY VI
Come, madam, you must straight to Westminster,
ESCALUS:
How now there!
How far into the morning is it, lords?
QUEEN MARGARET:

TRANIO:
And once again, a pot o' the smallest ale.
KING LEWIS XI:
May show like all yourself.
novelty is only in request; and it is as dangerous
QUEEN ELIZABETH:

To most ignoble stooping.
But let him swear so, and he shall not stay,
Of all the voices that we have procured
But by bad courses may be understood
Messenger:
Carry me to the gaol!

I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
And what obscured in this fair volume lies
expound the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens.
I trust I shall. My women, come; you have leave.
O, no! thou diest, though I the sicker be.
My strength can give you: then no more remains,

And by the worth and honour of himself,
Has made thee swell thus.
The earldom of Hereford and the moveables
Because my power is weak and all ill left:
I' the war do grow together: grant that, and tell me,

That he was never trained up in arms.
In earnestness to see him: seld-shown flamens
I crave their pardons:
Armies of pestilence; and they shall strike

My master is grown quarrelsome. I should knock
ANTONIO:

'O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth!'
And then, in speaking, not to incur the last,
PETRUCHIO:

Heavens grant that Warwick's words bewitch him not!
GLOUCESTER:
Water with berries in't, and teach me how
Equal with wondering: what of her ensues
To weep is to make less the depth of grief:
A little joy enjoys the queen thereof;
BAPTISTA:
Nine changes of the watery star hath been
PROSPERO:
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot;
No; if without more words you will get you hence.
And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
RICHARD:
That Rome should dote on: yet, by the faith of men,
Making another head to fight again.
Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst,
Affront his eye.
Never did captive with a freer heart
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words!
Which here you urge to prove us enemies,
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was
Tabours and cymbals and the shouting Romans,
You are abused and by some putter-on
Give rest to the minds of others, such as he
We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards:
COMINIUS:

And rather proved the sliding of your brother
Music and poesy use to quicken you;
Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
Nay, good my lord, be not afraid of shadows.
Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
PRINCE EDWARD:
Think you a little din can daunt mine ears?

Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
DUKE VINCENTIO:
As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems,
Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife.

ROMEO:
And that I have possess'd him my most stay
Dissentious numbers pestering streets than see
Call our cares fears; which will in time
AUTOLYCUS:
A novice of this place and the fair sister

But, like dumb statues or breathing stones,
Before he should thus stoop to the herd, but that

KING RICHARD III:
Out of their saddles into the dirt; and thereby
The king is not himself, but basely led
Who, newly in the seat, that it may know
By the apostle Paul, shadows to-night
To whom my father is not all unknown;
Suspecting that we both were in a house
By him that made us all, I am resolved
Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
you, deliver.

Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart;
After your late tossing on the breaking seas?
And who shines now but Henry's enemies?

KING RICHARD III:
If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life


ARIEL:

I am the last of noble Edward's sons,

And like her most whose merit most shall be:
These unknown friends to's welcome; for it is
To keep him safely till his day of trial.
Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.

The lining of his coffers shall make coats
But for the rest, you tell a pedigree
That ever made eye swerve, had force and knowledge
That ever Katharina will be woo'd;
A join'd-stool.

Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes:
I would my skill were subject to thy curse.
Well, say there is no kingdom then for Richard;
Wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be

Clown:
ELBOW:
ISABELLA:
And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
O, teach me how I should forget to think.
And welcome, Somerset: I hold it cowardice
First Gentleman:
His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
power that we have no power to do; for if he show us

My lord,
To have no screen between this part he play'd
That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear;
He hath the jewel of my life in hold,
I will devise a death as cruel for thee
LEONTES:
And by and by my master drew on him;
That his soul sicken not.
My life, sir! how, I pray? for that goes hard.
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
Girl:
But tread the stranger paths of banishment.
Benedicite!
his treading: he is able to pierce a corslet with
All unavoided is the doom of destiny.
Forgive my tyranny; but do not say
The lustful Edward's title buried--
BLUNT:
By bare imagination of a feast?
Our hap is loss, our hope but sad despair;
In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
TRANIO:
Or my shamed life in his dishonour lies:



Nay, but it is not so.
What you do
For Edward's sake; and see how he requites me!
That owes two buckets, filling one another,
Here where we are.
Her uncle Rivers; yea, and, for her sake,
Peace, Tranio!
PETRUCHIO:
Away with her, and waft her hence to France.
For corn at their own rates; whereof, they say,
Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
QUEEN MARGARET:
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
As my Antigonus to break his grave

I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,
That's somewhat madly spoken.
AUTOLYCUS:
By nothing; for this is no oath:
Would they were basilisks, to strike thee dead!
Provost:

Now thy proud neck bears half my burthen'd yoke;


Lay hands upon him.
And for his dreams, I wonder he is so fond
Your right depends not on his life or death.
WARWICK:
take it in what sense thou wilt.

YORK:
Very well met, and well come.
Let me in safety raise me from my knees

Hark in thine ear.
Of their breath only!
Here, here, sir; here, sir.
BENVOLIO:
This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
Upon the water as he'll stand and read
softly towards my kinsman's.
HORTENSIO:
Though I am satisfied and need no more
BIANCA:
And but one word with one of us? couple it with
My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of; here with
Against my will to do myself this wrong.
Of their own choice: one's Junius Brutus,
Good sometime queen, prepare thee hence for France:
NORTHUMBERLAND:

I'll buckler thee against a million.
Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou
I have too few to take my leave of you,
Officer:
WARWICK:
Then list to me:
that is something stale and hoar ere it be spent.
THOMAS MOWBRAY:


You understand me, sir: so shall you stay
Make way, unruly woman!
Therefore, we banish you our territories:
Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks,

By flatterers; and what they will inform,
If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
A beauty-waning and distressed widow,
You speak o' the people,
I'll try how you can sol, fa, and sing it.
O lady Fortune,

He means, my lord, that we are too remiss;

Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffer'd love.
First Lord:
HASTINGS:

Yea even my foes will shed fast-falling tears,
Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword:

But what it is, that is not yet known; what
Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue,
And yet to charge thy sulphur with a bolt
Why wither not the leaves the sap being gone?
MARIANA:
Have told me, I being by, that I should kill him?


Give me some present counsel, or, behold,
WARWICK:
If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life.
That in the sty of this most bloody boar
This other doth command a little door
Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs
kersey boot-hose on the other, gartered with a red
Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior:
Speak truly, on thy knighthood and thy oath;
him: something too crabbed that way, friar.

instruments which aided to expose the child were
I say it is the moon that shines so bright.
Ay, by any means prove a tall fellow: if I do not
Merely, my lord.
How camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
Think not the king did banish thee,
Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light,
To know the cause why music was ordain'd!
'Tis death for any one in Mantua
For that which, if myself might be his judge,


Set down our host. My partner in this action,

You rogue, I have been drinking all night; I am not




mar.
The entreaties of your mistress! satisfy!
Or do I dream? or have I dream'd till now?
Say she be mute and will not speak a word;
have had thee than thus to want thee: thou, having
How now, my masters! have you chose this man?

O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop
More direful hap betide that hated wretch,
COMINIUS:
I rather do beseech you pardon me,
MENENIUS:
The heads of Oxford, Salisbury, Blunt, and Kent:
I like it well that our fair queen and mistress
Go, masters, get you home; be not dismay'd:

Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
Hath he deserved to lose his birthright thus?
Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
What means this scene of rude impatience?
Whom envy hath immured within your walls!
ANTONIO:
KING RICHARD III:
And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen;
When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he fought
Meantime, have patience.


And every tongue brings in a several tale,

LUCENTIO:
Even in the chair of state: belike he means,
That, his apparent open guilt omitted,
A marvellous poor one.
KING RICHARD III:
RUTLAND:
which may make you and him to rue at the other.

Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
SICINIUS:
Both:
If I do so, it will be of more price,

ABHORSON:
The red rose and the white are on his face,
That want no ear but yours.
Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.
I hear that news, my lord.
COMINIUS:
I were a baby still. I love you better.

I know him not, but I have heard of him;
Away, my disposition, and possess me

Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
Well, well, sir, well.
SAMPSON:
I tell you, 'tis incredible to believe


I have forgot my part, and I am out,
Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,
A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!
Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in every
God keep all vows unbroke that swear to thee!
JOHN OF GAUNT:
Here cousin:
QUEEN MARGARET:
By my white beard,
LEONTES:
Hold me a foe;
laboured for the poor gentleman to the extremest
a kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence,

CORIOLANUS:
O ho, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.
God send you joy, Petruchio! 'tis a match.

Condition!

When I would pray and think, I think and pray
Polixenes for Leontes: O thou thing!
Behind the tuft of pines I met them; never
You grave but reckless senators, have you thus
himself stuck not to call us the many-headed multitude.
More pleasant, pithy and effectual,
Receive thy lance; and God defend the right!
ROMEO:
What said my man, when my betossed soul
Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son,
'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
PETRUCHIO:

Why look you so upon me?
call ladies.
EXETER:
Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke?
What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?
And that his country's dearer than himself;

That King Leontes shall not have an heir
LADY GREY:
I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t'other,
Ay me!


And to the battle came he; where he did
To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee:
ANTONIO:

By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie.
Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded;
All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
Ere I will see the crown so foul misplaced.
He has discover'd my design, and I
Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
How thou lovest us, show in our brother's welcome;
I am thus bold to put your grace in mind
As ours by murder, to make him a king!
LADY ANNE:
That had befall'n us. As we paced along

Have you a father?

First Soldier:
If the king had no son, they would desire to live
CORIOLANUS:



that kills my heart.
The breath of worldly men cannot depose
A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
But I will watch you from such watching now.
Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee,
GREMIO:
Messenger:
A fellow of the royal bed, which owe
Come, come, you froward and unable worms!
KING EDWARD IV:



As may beseem a monarch like himself.
To have some conference with your grace alone.
You may not so extenuate his offence
Will have fulfill'd their secret purposes;
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,

Come, come, we know your meaning, brother



JULIET:

With words that made them known. But thy vile race,

For thee to murder: for my daughters, Richard,
ANTONIO:
Here is the head of that ignoble traitor,
Where's Caius Marcius?
Hath not been used to fear. Even now I tremble
So Judas did to Christ: but he, in twelve,
Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths,
How doth my lady? Is my father well?

He little thought of this divided friendship:
which cannot choose but branch now. Since their
Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead,
DUKE OF YORK:
How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd!
But slow in speech, yet sweet as spring-time flowers:
And so deliver, I am put to sea

having in that perished vessel the dowry of his
NATHANIEL:
No, if I digg'd up thy forefathers' graves

Foes to my rest and my sweet sleep's disturbers
a tooth in her head, though she have as many diseases
BIONDELLO:
By my troth, it is well said; 'for himself to mar,'
Clown:
O, what may man within him hide,
DUKE VINCENTIO:
WARWICK:
LADY GREY:
What though I kill'd her husband and her father?


Be rein'd again to temperance; then he speaks
That hardly can I cheque my eyes from tears.
When, I beseech you? that in his reprieve,
Either forbear,
The hazard of much blood.
O Margaret, Margaret, now thy heavy curse
Nay, stay not to expostulate, make speed;
'Tis not possible.
And never trouble Peter for the matter.

KING RICHARD III:

To lure this tassel-gentle back again!

The Emperor of Russia was my father:
False accusation blush and tyranny
ROMEO:
And so doth mine: I muse why she's at liberty.
LUCIO:
Out of the dukedom and confer fair Milan
They never then had sprung like summer flies;
Men give like gods; but when they weep and kneel,

KING LEWIS XI:

I, as I may--that which I would I cannot,--
As poisonous of your honour: no; our suit
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
That bear the shapes of men, how have you run
Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick;
GLOUCESTER:
First, mighty sovereign, let me know your mind,
And vice sometimes by action dignified.
Do, good my lord, lest all the land do rue it.

CAMILLO:


Is pointing still, in cleansing them from tears.
'Though all at once cannot
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
At a poor man's house; he used me kindly:

He that no more must say is listen'd more
A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence
Then, O you blessed ministers above,
Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car,
KING RICHARD III:
ROMEO:
Now put your shields before your hearts, and fight
things, all but what she has with her: this being
KING LEWIS XI:
sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer
DUKE OF YORK:
KING EDWARD IV:

And, as I further have to understand,
And other books, good ones, I warrant ye.
Come on, lay it by: and let's first see moe
Methought I had; and often did I strive
LUCIO:
ESCALUS:
GLOUCESTER:
Most sorry, you have broken from his liking
Away with that audacious lady! Antigonus,
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
The leisure and enforcement of the time
us.
And, if we thrive, promise them such rewards
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
That do conspire my death with devilish plots
Shepherd:
The casting forth to crows thy baby-daughter
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
KING HENRY VI:
There's nothing differs but the outward fame.
One i' the neck, and two i' the thigh,--there's
SICINIUS:
Vex not yourself, nor strive not with your breath;
to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
One of our convent, and his confessor,
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
Look behind you, my lord.
And we his subjects sworn in all allegiance
I am so dishonour'd that the very hour
From his true-meant design. Upon his place,

SOMERSET:
Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
As is the sepulchre in stubborn Jewry,
My prayers on the adverse party fight;
Do you hear, sir? To leave frivolous circumstances,


She is your treasure, she must have a husband;
BENVOLIO:
That if about this hour he make his way
Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment
Go ask his name: if he be married.
I do bite my thumb, sir.
So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend.

Come your way, sir. 'Bless you, good father friar.
Ay, traitor, Marcius!
Has he dined, canst thou tell? for I would not

Though some of you with Pilate wash your hands
Ay, mistress bride, hath that awaken'd you?
They have been absent: 'tis good speed; foretells
Mine ear is open and my heart prepared;
To hold thine own and leave thine own with him.

POLIXENES:
Should rift to hear me; and the words that follow'd
Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
ROMEO:

To load my she with knacks: I would have ransack'd
Stays but the summons of the appellant's trumpet.
Your queen and I are devils: yet go on;
GREMIO:
Where no priest shovels in dust. O cursed wretch,
Her vestal livery is but sick and green
things should be: all difficulties are but easy

Messenger:
But of all, the burst
ISABELLA:
That any of these bolder vices wanted
Nurse:
LUCIO:
stealing, fighting--Hark you now! Would any but



How now! what noise? That spirit's possessed with haste
That bear in them one and the self-same tongue,
Master, some show to welcome us to town.
Which to recure, we heartily solicit

Provost, a word with you!


OXFORD:
Even such a woman oweth to her husband;
KING RICHARD II:
SICINIUS:
Ely with Richmond troubles me more near
To die when I desire.
I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor
GONZALO:

TYBALT:

BIONDELLO:
HERMIONE:
In him there is a hope of government,

But judge you as you are? O, think on that;
For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
SICINIUS:
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
Better once than never, for never too late.
Would through the airy region stream so bright
COMINIUS:

Then was I going prisoner to the Tower,
I am glad at heart
I am the greatest, able to do least,



See that Claudio
Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in 's tunes.
GLOUCESTER:

And therefore here I mean to take my leave.
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,
CATESBY:
I had rather chop this hand off at a blow,
Lay her a-hold, a-hold! set her two courses off to

How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes


And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
Can censure 'scape; back-wounding calumny
and let me desire to know how you find Claudio
Who shall begin?
So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
When you disgraced me in my embassade,
Which are as easy broke as they make forms.
I, even I: what think you of it, madam?
Is near the hate of those love not the king.
By urging me to fury: O, be gone!

How now, my lord, what say the citizens?

Prithee now,
Even so; an't please your worship, Brakenbury,
Of all professors else, make proselytes
The love of wicked men converts to fear;
And never to my red-look'd anger be
CORIOLANUS:
For every cloud engenders not a storm.
And, see, a book of prayer in his hand,
And in this thought they find a kind of ease,
GLOUCESTER:
What, is there a maid with child by him?
No cause!
like an impediment in the current, made it more
Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
Give up your keys.
Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow.

His master's son, as worshipful as he terms it,

Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son,
NORTHUMBERLAND:
Who hither come engaged by my oath--

Second Servant:
First Senator:
Nor any of the house of Lancaster?
And both preposterous; therefore, not 'good lord.'
I daily vow to use it. Come and lead me

And straight am nothing: but whate'er I be,

That talk'd of her, have talk'd amiss of her:
To meet you at the Tower and welcome you.
Thine eye begins to speak; set thy tongue there;
Be pilot to me and thy places shall
BUCKINGHAM:
Have I since your departure had, my lords.
of profession: one would think it were Mistress

Having no other reason
Let us seem humbler after it is done
Prithee, peace.
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
I would there were no age between sixteen and

Gracious my lord,
How would he look, to see his work so noble
That, all-amazed, the priest let fall the book;
And these external manners of laments
I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
I wish't might fall on me, when I was found
delivered him to his liberty or executed him? I
To the end of reckoning.
The heavens have bless'd you with a goodly son,

More than was ever man's, I would not prize them
Plough Rome and harrow Italy: I'll never
Servant:
So season'd with your faithful love to me.
MERCUTIO:


BRUTUS:
And those who have the wit to claim the place:

That it was yours. Now, for conspiracy,
This will I carry to Rome.
PAULINA:
TRANIO:

KING RICHARD II:
And every hour more competitors
Commanded always by the greater gust;
Make us pay down for our offence by weight
Well; come to me to-morrow.
TRANIO:
The saddest spectacle that e'er I view'd.
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
And tread upon his neck.
It honour'd him.
And for that name which is no part of thee
Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime.
By virtue specially to be achieved.
GLOUCESTER:
Come, madam, come; I in all haste was sent.
Skipper, stand back: 'tis age that nourisheth.
Had borne the action of yourself, or else
And merrily hent the stile-a:
Hardly one subject.
But I had rather kill two enemies.

And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,
It is my son, young Harry Percy,
Hark you, sir; you mean not her to--
And thy abundant goodness shall excuse
And then betwixt me and my married wife.
The brother blindly shed the brother's blood,
My soul the father; and these two beget
CLARENCE:
And in his parties, his alliance; let him be
You have not been inquired after:
'Tis none of mine.
Nor, gentle daughter, fear you not at all.
ROMEO:
Ah, madam, 'tis too true: and that is worse,
Wave thus, to express his disposition,
Am I both priest and clerk? well then, amen.
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
And the new deputy now for the duke--
Like to my followers in prosperity,
And by his rare example made the coward
YORK:
And, in good time, here comes the noble duke.
A horse and a man
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;

QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Will bear the knave by the volume. The honour'd gods
I fear, for ever: Milan and Naples have
Thou worthiest Marcius!

To shepherds looking on their silly sheep,
Apothecary:
LUCENTIO:

Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.
Take it on her. Camillo and Polixenes
And to be shortly of a sisterhood,
Unsheathe your sword, good father; cry 'Saint George!'

Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
With heigh! with heigh! the thrush and the jay,
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp?
To banish your defenders; till at length
Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal.
Let it go; there's few or none will entertain it.
PERDITA:
BUCKINGHAM:
I'll wait upon your lordship.
two and thirty, a pip out? Whom would to God I had
Beseech your highness, call the queen again.
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
When you curse them as enemies.
CORIOLANUS:
Which argued thee a most unloving father.
PETRUCHIO:

Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,
Within three hours will fair Juliet wake:
EXETER:
My lords, before it pleased his majesty
but what mystery there should be in hanging, if I
This, and Saint George to boot! What think'st thou, Norfolk?
As I intended, for it wrought on her


What you profess.
Never, Paulina; so be blest my spirit!



GREGORY:
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
And here is come to do some villanous shame
But love thee better than thou canst devise,
MENENIUS:


Vouchsafe, divine perfection of a woman,
King Richard, he is in the mighty hold
The crown will find an heir: great Alexander
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring
A fellow, sir, that I have known to go about with
O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard.
Be not thyself; for how art thou a king
You love the breeder better than the male.
I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
PAULINA:
Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;

BAPTISTA:
Will you buy any tape,
your eyes so fast?


well that prays for peace.
king's daughter is found: such a deal of wonder is
VOLUMNIA:
Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so:
Run reeking o'er the lives of men, as if
KATHARINA:

garters of an indifferent knit: let them curtsy
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble
DION:
joy were now become a loss, cries 'O, thy mother,
Pedant:
Second Huntsman:
That I may live to say, The dog is dead!

Now, by mine honour, by my life, by my troth,
ROMEO:
A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
I am afraid, sir,
Lords:
The cause of his arrival here in arms:
I pray you, daughter, sing; or express yourself in a
With one consent to have her so bestow'd;
So true men yield, with robbers so o'ermatch'd.
For, ere the six years that he hath to spend
VOLUMNIA:
BAPTISTA:
O the heavens!
An 'twere to give again,--but 'tis no matter.

three days his head to be chopped off.
trial of you only. Therefore fasten your ear on my

Speak and look back, and pry on every side,

What canst thou swear by now?
DUKE VINCENTIO:
not trouble them. Come, bring away thy pack after
As victors wear at the Olympian games:
Your hearts of sorrow and your eyes of tears:
Or I mistake you: O, would her name were Grace!
Farewell, sweet lords: let's meet at Coventry.

I lost a couple, that 'twixt heaven and earth
COMINIUS:
To find out this abuse, whence 'tis derived.
KING EDWARD IV:


A gentleman of noble parentage,
YORK:

ROMEO:
But say, I pray, what nobleman is that
BUCKINGHAM:
To break the heart of generosity,
Provost, how came it Claudio was beheaded
Nay, good my lord, be not angry.
I' the plain way of his merit.
Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.
For, by this light, whereby I see thy beauty,
sworn brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold
Heaviness in me.
The cause were not in being,--part o' the cause,
And sight-outrunning were not; the fire and cracks
Our forceful instigation? Our prerogative
Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock, I'll ring it;
Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.
And say it is the queen and her allies
not tainted! And why meet him at the gates, and
Is not infected: but if one present
But time will not permit: all is uneven,
These dead men's tombs.
had rather it would please you I might be whipt.
Let's to the Capitol;
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
Yet one time he did call me by my name:
I'd not have given a doit. Hark, how they joy!
Since we can not atone you, we shall see
My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon,
Why, how now, Kate! I hope thou art not mad:
My lord, will't please you pass along?
And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
CAMILLO:
If heaven have any grievous plague in store
Pots, and, I think, forty more; all great doers in
Or be accused of folly. I shall tell you
KING RICHARD III:
RIVERS:
Doth live again in thee: long mayst thou live
DUKE OF AUMERLE:
Beside, so qualified as may beseem
The masters of some merchant and the merchant
But only seeing, all other circumstances
Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well;
To get slips of them.
Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-apparell'd.
WARWICK:
Ten thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon;
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast.
danced before the king; and not the worst of the

Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
Than thou hast to deny 't. Come, let us go:
Little have you to say
Of the young prince, whose honourable thoughts,
To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor:
So soon as yours could win me: so it should now,
LORD FITZWATER:
Must I with base tongue give my noble heart
A plague upon you all! His royal person,--
Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
And make us lose the good we oft might win
VOLUMNIA:
Hail sir!
To thy false seeming! Blood, thou art blood:

KING RICHARD II:
GREGORY:
Now I come to't my lord

She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house,

Should not be utter'd feebly. It is held
Third Gentleman:
Would have him wed again.
To yield the ghost: but still the envious flood
ANGELO:
Let him be made a coverture for the wars!
Put him to choler straight: he hath been used

MENENIUS:
And all the better is it for the maid:
How now, fair maid?
May call it back again. Well, believe this,
FLORIZEL:
Awhile to work, and after holiday.
SICINIUS:
my son Coriolanus: guess, but by my entertainment
And not provoked by any suitor else;
That we with smoking swords may march from hence,
And then deny her aiding hand therein,
MENENIUS:
Doth this news hold of good King Edward's death?
Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George,
Split'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
Suppose the singing birds musicians,
LARTIUS:

Provokes this deluge most unnatural.
More after our commandment than as guided
Not willing any longer conference,

very notes of admiration: they seemed almost, with
Who knows not he is dead! who knows he is?
Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us:
LADY ANNE:
I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace:
CLARENCE:

DUKE VINCENTIO:
Reveal yourself to him.
Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life:
Soldier:
I will be correspondent to command
BUCKINGHAM:
now stands, he will avoid your accusation; he made
Should be as holy as severe;
BIONDELLO:
MENENIUS:
Will not proclaim against her maiden loss,
QUEEN:
Only their ends
Though he divide the realm and give thee half,
The lineal glory of your royal house,
PRINCE:

of losing.

She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
Swear by the duty that you owe to God--
My life and services.

Hear nought from Rome in private. Your request?

To melt the city leads upon your pates,

A pretty peat! it is best
You hear my spell is lawful: do not shun her
JULIET:
As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
Help, help! Call help.

I would to God that the inclusive verge
The caterpillars of the commonwealth,

GRUMIO:
Second Murderer:
Any silk, any thread,
SICINIUS:
If without peril it be possible,
WARWICK:
Second Capulet:
Again with Rome's mechanics: tell me not
That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, I
Upon the heavy middle of the night
Was done to death? and more than so, my father,

What, neither?
You holy clergymen, is there no plot
JULIET:
PETER:
And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
With humble and familiar courtesy,
Or seeming so in skill, cannot or will not
And if they fall, they dash themselves to pieces.

CURTIS:

The moon! the sun: it is not moonlight now.
Third Servingman:
Groom:
Flow'd with her beauty once: 'tis shrewdly ebb'd,
You must not speak of that: you must desire them
This morning for ten thousand of your throats
Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much
Here in the prison, father,
In deadly hate the one against the other:
I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?
I should knock you here, sir?
But you, my noble lords, may name the time;
On, good Camillo.
And you, good sir! Pray, have you not a daughter

Than the soft myrtle: but man, proud man,
O, if you raise this house against this house,
But fetter you till death.
Where are my slippers? Shall I have some water?
Well, here he comes.

Asses are made to bear, and so are you.

THOMAS MOWBRAY:
LUCENTIO:
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.

Ay, but he's dead: off with the traitor's head,
Has spoken like a traitor, and shall answer
Upon thy words, that kill mine eye and heart!
Have I here touch'd Sicilia and from him
Within the earth; and, therein laid,--there lies
Now the good gods forbid
We met here both to thank and to remember

No, to the dignity and height of honour
KING HENRY VI:
to-morrow four o'clock.
You knew my father well, and in him me,
Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
There is an air comes from her: what fine chisel
feel, will break the back of man, the heart of monster.
Acquaint the queen of your most noble offer;
Her eye discourses; I will answer it.
Hostess:

RICHMOND:
Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down!
Provost:
Go you before, and I will follow you.
What is the matter with our cousin now?


Aumerle that was;
This is a man, old, wrinkled, faded, wither'd,
For sinking under them.
Welcome home, Grumio!
KATHARINA:
ROMEO:
Having no more but thought of what thou wert,

Me rather had my heart might feel your love
DUKE OF YORK:
My lord, I must confess I know this woman:
Good faith, I'll prove him,
What, go you toward the Tower?

Clarence comes.
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
Write in the dust this sentence with thy blood,
We make woe wanton with this fond delay:
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
As I seem now. Their transformations

And therefore comes my brother Montague.
Subdues me quite. Even till now,
To smile at scapes and perils overblown.
Stay we no longer, dreaming of renown,
Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
Ah, sirs, consider, he that set you on
For matching more for wanton lust than honour,
Will no more hear from thence.

HORTENSIO:
Good my liege, I come;
My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys
And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.
I bade her come. What, lamb! what, ladybird!
Sink in the ground? I thought it would have mounted.
the prince thou art a tall fellow of thy hands and
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them;

Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says
CAMILLO:
Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise;


What men of name resort to him?
foot, you shall see, as I have said, great
Of sorrow or of joy?
women, the virginal palms of your daughters, or with
The blood of English shall manure the ground,
But in this kind to come, in braving arms,
thoroughly woo her, wed her and bed her and rid the
And so, my good lord mayor, we bid farewell.

And twice to-day pick'd out the dullest scent:
CALIBAN:
Ay, and he'll tame her.
No settled senses of the world can match
My lord, whoever journeys to the Prince,
crutches ere he was born desire yet their life to
RIVERS:
To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome

The government I cast upon my brother
the king's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
disposition; and out of his noble carelessness lets
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes

ABHORSON:

Third Citizen:
but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
ESCALUS:
When, with a most impatient devilish spirit,
Sir, pardon me in what I have to say:
Usurps the regal title and the seat
For do we must what force will have us do.
CAMILLO:

LEONTES:

In her chamber, making a sermon of continency to her;
I'll bring him to you.

not heard of the proclamation, have you?
As is the other for beauteous modesty.
Blush, Blush, thou lump of foul deformity;
For few men rightly temper with the stars:
O, that must be
The Earl of Warwick and the duke enforced me.
SLY:
O, who hath any cause to mourn but I?
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple
O woful day, O woful day!
glosses, being rather new-dyed than stained with
LARTIUS:
Come, go, good Juliet,
The time shall not be many hours of age

Plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting,
This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
You had not show'd them how ye were disposed
Which the rather
Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none;
GREMIO:
That when the sea was calm all boats alike
GREMIO:
It is a matter of small consequence,
And had he match'd according to his state,
How! Was it we? we loved him but, like beasts

Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
Which is as thin of substance as the air
And mourn you for him: let him be regarded
That thou neglect me not, with that opinion
From off the rock Tarpeian never more

DORCAS:
KING RICHARD III:

You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
FRIAR JOHN:
in all reason should have quenched her love, hath,
I have advertised him by secret means



It should be look'd to: come.
After the inveterate hate he bears you.
By holy marriage: when and where and how
HASTINGS:
She had the wrong. But what said Henry's queen?

The crows to peck the eagles.
Within my age. But reason with the fellow,

CAMILLO:
That I'll try.

Nurse:
Hold, Richard, hold; for we have done too much.
I do, my lord; but long I shall not stay
SEBASTIAN:

My fear to hope, my sorrows unto joys,
Honest goodfellows, ah, put up, put up;

If ever you have spent time worse ere now;
BRUTUS:
The ivy which had hid my princely trunk,
ROMEO:
Faith, none, but Humphrey Hour, that call'd
Give scandal to the blood o' the prince my son,
Did I let pass the abuse done to my niece?
Divides one thing entire to many objects;


Tailor:


Who even in pure and vestal modesty,
Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.
And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread
Are you contented to resign the crown?
as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage
Great nature cries 'Deny not.' let the Volsces
She shall not.
ROMEO:
To whose flint bosom my condemned lord
Go, sound thy trumpet in the market-place;


and therein am I constant to my profession.
KING RICHARD III:
Ay.

Nurse:
ANTIGONUS:
Which once thou sworest was worth the looking on;
That you do speak to the people.
That now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I
First, the gods bless you for your tidings; next,

Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,

Take the boy to you: he so troubles me,
My lord,

What is the time o' the day?

And therefore level not to hit their lives.


Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height
Of your commissions.
But I fear
Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay.
ARIEL:


But they can see a sort of traitors here.
You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
Thou camest here to complain.
Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their grave.

KING RICHARD III:
POMPEY:
QUEEN ELIZABETH:
Ghosts of young Princes:

And haste is needful in this desperate case.
POLIXENES:
Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart

My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
KING RICHARD II:
And not a jot of Tranio in your mouth:
By putting on the destined livery.
Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier;
ROMEO:
And 'tis my hope to end successfully.

BLUNT:
Unless abroad they purchase great alliance?

If that my cousin king be King of England,
O prince! O cousin! husband! O, the blood is spilt
Ye cannot reason almost with a man
From which awaked, the truth of what we are
CLARENCE:
KATHARINA:


Madam, yourself are not exempt in this,
Pluck'd four away.
BENVOLIO:
Heavy matters! heavy matters! but look thee here,

DUKE VINCENTIO:

LEONTES:
I'll be hanged first: thou art deceived in me,
Saw I men scour so on their way: I eyed them
FRIAR LAURENCE:
let him have knowledge who I am.
I promised we would be contributors
First Servingman:
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
He was in the right; and so indeed it is.
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
Hath in eternal darkness folded up.
JULIET:


you never heard of!
Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.

Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself,
BAPTISTA:
Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if

AUFIDIUS:
Master, you look'd so longly on the maid,
BAPTISTA:
And I with tears do wash the blood away.

Alone, in company, still my care hath been

No better.
Most goddess-like prank'd up: but that our feasts
But for the concord of my state and time
met you at the prison, in the absence of the duke.
KING RICHARD III:
none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand by
face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels
worst thing about him, how could Master Froth do the
obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold
I do not, sir.
Upon him as he pass'd: the nobles bended,

By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain;
Master, master! news, old news, and such news as
Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,
And loves not me, be you, good lord, assured
To her I go, a jolly thriving wooer.

great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house
DUCHESS OF YORK:
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
Casting their savageness aside have done

PETRUCHIO:
ANGELO:

ISABELLA:
The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness
are they gone, and there they intend to sup.
I see no reason but supposed Lucentio
QUEEN MARGARET:
Of my conception. The state, whereon I studied
HENRY BOLINGBROKE:
As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?
PETRUCHIO:
With giving him glory.
MENENIUS:
HASTINGS:
Before a true and lawful magistrate,
O my sweet lady, pardon.
thou thimble,

Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
PETRUCHIO:
Here comes the rogue.
The pleasure of that madness. Let 't alone.
Remember Margaret was a prophetess.'
By need and accident. What train?
BIONDELLO:
Lord:
What from your grace I shall deliver to him.
therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.


stand for his place. He received in the repulse of
Where it perceives it is but faintly borne.
thine eyes so red: thou must be patient. I am fain
Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs and weeps:
therein would have found issue. Hear me profess
Widow:
Why, what need we
Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife
That's bitter to sweet end.
ARIEL:
Our rustic garden's barren; and I care not
And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far
Italian master, Julio Romano, who, had he himself
strange things from Rome; all tending to the good of

BUCKINGHAM:
Which never tender lady hath born greater,

And then my husband--God be with his soul!

For then thou canst not pass to Mantua;
ANGELO:
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
